# FYP1-MidReport-F24-218-D_ArtiFlo - i211235 Noman Mustafa Mehar

## 1. Introduction

1. Introduction
1.2 BPMN and BPMN 2.0
Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN) is a standardized graphical notation used
to visualize business processes. It provides an intuitive way for both business analysts and
technical developers to model complex workﬂows and processes. BPMN allows organi-
zations to create detailed process diagrams that are easy to understand and implement.
BPMN 2.0, an updated version of the original BPMN standard, introduces a compre-
hensive XML schema that deﬁnes the structure and semantics of BPMN models. This
makes BPMN 2.0 not only a visual tool but also an executable one, enabling automated
workﬂows and process management systems.
1.2.1 Sample Process Description
"If goods shall be shipped, the secretary clariﬁes who will do the shipping. If you have
large amounts, special shipping will be necessary. In these cases the secretary invites three
logistic companies to make offers and she selects one of them. In case of small amounts,
normal post shipment is used. Therefore a package label is written by the secretary and a
parcel insurance taken by the logistics department head if necessary. In the meantime the
goods can be already packaged by the warehousemen. If everything is ready, the packaged
goods are prepared for being picked up by the logistic company."
1.2.2 Sample BPMN 2.0 XML Code
Below is a sample of BPMN 2.0 XML code illustrating a simple process with a start event,
a task, and an end event:
< b p m n : d e f i n i t i o n s xmlns:bpmn = " http: // www . omg . org / spec / BPMN
/20100524/ MODEL " x m l n s : b p m n d i = " http: // www . omg . org / spec / BPMN
/20100524/ DI " xmlns:di = " http: // www . omg . org / spec / DD
/20100524/ DI " xmlns:dc = " http: // www . omg . org / spec / DD
/20100524/ DC " xmlns:xsi = " http: // www . w3 . org /2001/ XMLSchema -
instance " id = " D e f i n i t i o n s _ 1 " t a r g e t N a m e s p a c e = " http: // bpmn .
io / schema / bpmn " >
< b p m n : c o l l a b o r a t i o n id = " C o l l a b o r a t i o n _ 0 g e r y c 1 " >
< b p m n : p a r t i c i p a n t id = " P a r t i c i p a n t _ 0 y g k g 4 f " name = " Dispatch /uni2423
of /uni2423 goods &#10; Computer /uni2423 Hardware /uni2423 Shop " processRef = "
Process_1 " / >
</ b p m n : c o l l a b o r a t i o n >
< b p m n : p r o c e s s id = " Process_1 " i s E x e c u t a b l e = " false " >
< b p m n : l a n e S e t >
2
1.2 BPMN and BPMN 2.0
< bpmn:lane id = " L a n e _ 1 v i o t 5 w " name = " Logistics " >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > T a s k _ 1 2 j 0 p i b </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
</ bpmn:lane >
< bpmn:lane id = " L a n e _ 1 o c s e y o " name = " Secretary " >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > T a s k _ 0 j s o x b a </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > T a s k _ 0 v a x g a a </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > T a s k _ 0 e 6 h v n j </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > T a s k _ 0 s 7 9 i l e </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > I n c l u s i v e G a t e w a y _ 0 p 2 e 5 v q </
b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > I n c l u s i v e G a t e w a y _ 1 d g b 4 s g </
b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > S t a r t E v e n t _ 1 </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > P a r a l l e l G a t e w a y _ 0 2 f g r f q </
b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > E x c l u s i v e G a t e w a y _ 1 m p g z h g </
b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > E x c l u s i v e G a t e w a y _ 1 o u v 9 k f </
b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
</ bpmn:lane >
< bpmn:lane id = " L a n e _ 1 v l 2 i g x " name = " Warehouse " >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > T a s k _ 0 5 f t u g 5 </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > T a s k _ 0 s l 2 6 u o </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > E x c l u s i v e G a t e w a y _ 0 z 5 s i b 0 </
b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
< b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f > E n d E v e n t _ 1 f x 9 y p 3 </ b p m n : f l o w N o d e R e f >
</ bpmn:lane >
</ b p m n : l a n e S e t >
< b p m n : s e q u e n c e F l o w id = " S e q u e n c e F l o w _ 0 i u 9 p o 7 " name = " no "
sourceRef = " E x c l u s i v e G a t e w a y _ 1 m p g z h g " targetRef = "
I n c l u s i v e G a t e w a y _ 0 p 2 e 5 v q " / >
< b p m n : i n c l u s i v e G a t e w a y id = " I n c l u s i v e G a t e w a y _ 0 p 2 e 5 v q " >
< b p m n : i n c o m i n g > S e q u e n c e F l o w _ 0 i u 9 p o 7 </ b p m n : i n c o m i n g >
< b p m n : o u t g o i n g > S e q u e n c e F l o w _ 1 j 9 4 o j a </ b p m n : o u t g o i n g >
< b p m n : o u t g o i n g > S e q u e n c e F l o w _ 1 d l b l n 9 </ b p m n : o u t g o i n g >
</ b p m n : i n c l u s i v e G a t e w a y >
< bpmn:task id = " T a s k _ 1 2 j 0 p i b " name = " Insure /uni2423 parcel " >
< b p m n : i n c o m i n g > S e q u e n c e F l o w _ 1 j 9 4 o j a </ b p m n : i n c o m i n g >
< b p m n : o u t g o i n g > S e q u e n c e F l o w _ 0 k z 5 g 1 t </ b p m n : o u t g o i n g >
</ bpmn:task >
This XML structure deﬁnes a simple process with a start event, a user task, and an end
event, which can be executed or visualized using BPMN tools.
3
1. Introduction
1.2.3 Sample BPMN 2.0 Diagram
Figure 1.1: Sample BPMN Diagram
1.3 Problem Statement
The complexity of Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN) poses a signiﬁcant
challenge for students and educators alike, particularly in academic settings where under-
standing both the theory and application of BPMN is crucial. Traditional BPMN tools
are typically designed for professional use and lack the educational features necessary to
facilitate effective learning. They do not provide real-time feedback or guidance, making
it difﬁcult for students to identify and correct mistakes as they work through the model-
ing process. Educators, on the other hand, face difﬁculties in tracking student progress,
identifying problem areas, and providing timely feedback.
ArtiFlo is being developed to address these challenges by integrating AI-driven features
with BPMN diagram creation to enhance both the learning and teaching experience. The
software automates BPMN diagram generation from natural language descriptions, pro-
vides real-time feedback to students during manual diagram creation, and offers com-
prehensive activity logging to track student performance. By doing so, ArtiFlo aims to
transform inefﬁcient BPMN learning environments into accessible, interactive, and data-
driven systems that facilitate mastery of business process modeling.
4
1.4 Motivation
1.4 Motivation
The motivation for this project stems from personal academic experiences and the ob-
served challenges faced by students and educators in mastering Business Process Model
and Notation (BPMN). As students of business process engineering, we encountered a
lack of accessible resources and real-time feedback mechanisms essential for effective
practical learning. The available BPMN tools are primarily geared toward professional
users, lacking interactive guidance and educational features suited to academic environ-
ments.
Students often struggle to grasp BPMN concepts without immediate corrective feedback,
leading to frustration and inefﬁciencies. Additionally, educators face challenges in creat-
ing multiple BPMN examples for instructional purposes and have limited means to iden-
tify speciﬁc areas where students may be struggling. These challenges hinder both the
teaching and learning of BPMN, making it difﬁcult to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical application.
By developing ArtiFlo, we aim to address these pain points by providing an AI-powered
tool that simpliﬁes BPMN diagram creation, delivers real-time feedback, and equips edu-
cators with insights into student performance. This project seeks to foster a more interac-
tive, supportive, and efﬁcient learning environment for mastering BPMN concepts.
1.5 Problem Solution
The software application being developed addresses the critical problem of inefﬁcient and
manual business process diagramming, which hampers the effectiveness of Business Pro-
cess Management (BPM). The primary objective of ArtiFlo is to streamline and automate
the creation of BPMN diagrams by leveraging advanced Natural Language Processing
(NLP) and Large Language Models (LLMs). This approach will signiﬁcantly reduce the
time and effort required for diagramming, enhance accuracy, and facilitate better process
documentation and analysis.
The key goals of the application include:
1. Automated Diagram Generation: Automatically generate BPMN diagrams from
textual descriptions or process logs, minimizing manual input and errors.
2. Intelligent Log Analysis : Use LLMs to analyze logs of user activities within
the BPMN diagrams, offering insights and recommendations for process improve-
ments.
5
1. Introduction
3. Enhanced Accuracy : Improve the precision of process diagrams by using ad-
vanced NLP techniques to interpret complex process descriptions.
4. User-Friendly Interface: Provide an intuitive interface that simpliﬁes the creation,
editing, and management of BPMN diagrams.
5. Customizable Templates: Offer customizable diagram templates catering to vari-
ous business process needs, ensuring ﬂexibility and adaptability.
6. Real-Time Feedback: Provide real-time feedback and suggestions for enhancing
process diagrams based on user interactions and data patterns.
7. Integration Capabilities: Support integration with existing BPM tools and systems
to facilitate seamless data exchange and process management.
8. Error Detection: Implement mechanisms to detect and correct inconsistencies or
issues within the BPMN diagrams.
9. Performance Tracking: Track and analyze user performance and progress in creat-
ing BPMN diagrams, offering insights into productivity and areas for improvement.
10. Scalability: Ensure the application can scale to accommodate large and complex
business processes, supporting the needs of various organizations.
11. Security and Privacy : Implement robust security measures to protect sensitive
process data and ensure compliance with privacy regulations.
12. Educational Support: Provide educational resources and support to assist users in
understanding and utilizing BPMN diagrams and the application’s features.
13. Continuous Improvement: Incorporate user feedback and updates to continuously
enhance the application’s functionality and performance.
By achieving these goals, the application will signiﬁcantly improve the efﬁciency and ef-
fectiveness of business process diagramming, leading to more streamlined and optimized
processes.
1.6 Stakeholders
1.6.1 Students
Primary Users: Undergraduate and graduate students studying business process man-
agement, information systems, or related ﬁelds.
Needs:
6
1.6 Stakeholders
• Easy-to-use tool for learning BPMN.
• Real-time feedback on diagram creation.
• Interactive tutorials.
• Performance tracking.
Goals:
• Master BPMN concepts.
• Create accurate process models.
• Improve diagramming skills.
1.6.2 Educators/Instructors
Key Users: University professors, lecturers, and instructors teaching business process
modeling courses.
Needs:
• Efﬁcient tool for creating BPMN diagrams.
• Ability to monitor student progress.
• Generate performance reports.
• Provide targeted feedback.
Goals:
• Streamline the BPMN teaching process.
• Improve student learning outcomes.
• Create multiple BPMN examples for course materials.
1.6.3 Educational Institutions
Decision Makers: Department heads, deans, or IT administrators responsible for adopt-
ing educational technologies.
Needs:
7
1. Introduction
• Cost-effective, scalable solution that enhances business process modeling educa-
tion.
Goals:
• Improve course offerings.
• Increase student engagement and performance in BPMN-related courses.
1.6.4 Business Process Analysts
Primary Users: Professionals analyzing and designing business processes to improve
efﬁciency and effectiveness.
Needs:
• Advanced tool for creating, visualizing, and analyzing BPMN diagrams.
• Support for detailed process analysis and documentation.
Goals:
• Develop precise and insightful BPMN diagrams.
• Enhance process understanding.
• Provide valuable insights for business improvements.
1.7 Product Users
1.7.1 Teachers (Educators/Instructors)
Role: University professors and course instructors who use the tool to enhance the learn-
ing process for students.
Responsibilities:
• Create and Manage BPMN Diagrams: Use the tool to design and present BPMN
diagrams for lectures, assignments, and projects.
• Provide Feedback: Offer guidance to students on their BPMN work.
• Monitor Student Progress: Track student performance through the tool’s report-
ing features.
8
1.7 Product Users
Goals:
• Enhance Learning: Use BPMN diagrams to clarify complex concepts.
• Support Students: Provide feedback to help students improve.
• Facilitate Assignments: Efﬁciently manage and grade BPMN assignments.
1.7.2 Students
Role: Students enrolled in business process management courses who interact with the
tool for their coursework.
Responsibilities:
• Create BPMN Diagrams: Use the tool to create and submit BPMN diagrams as
part of their coursework.
• Participate in Assignments and Quizzes: Complete assignments and take quizzes
related to BPMN.
• Seek Feedback: Utilize teacher feedback to improve understanding and perfor-
mance.
Goals:
• Master BPMN: Gain proﬁciency through hands-on practice.
• Complete Assignments: Successfully complete BPMN-related assignments and
projects.
• Receive Feedback: Utilize feedback to enhance skills and knowledge.
9
1. Introduction
User Type Role Responsibilities Goals
Teachers University profes-
sors and course
instructors
- Create and manage
BPMN diagrams
- Provide feedback
- Monitor student
progress
- Enhance learning
- Support students
- Facilitate assignments
Students Students enrolled in
BPM courses
- Create BPMN dia-
grams
- Participate in assign-
ments and quizzes
- Seek feedback
- Master BPMN
- Complete assign-
ments
- Receive feedback
Table 1.1: Summary of Roles, Responsibilities, and Goals of Product Users
10
Chapter 2
Project Requirements
This chapter describes the functional and non-functional requirements of the ArtiFlo sys-
tem. The functional requirements detail the features and operations of the system, while
the non-functional requirements cover the quality attributes that ensure the system per-
forms effectively and meets users’ expectations.
2.1 System Workﬂow Diagram
The System Workﬂow Diagram outlines the user ﬂow and key interactions within the Ar-
tiFlo platform. It demonstrates processes such as creating a BPMN diagram from scratch,
receiving real-time feedback, and exporting the diagram. See Figure 2.12.1 for an overview
of the workﬂow.
Figure 2.1: Workﬂow Diagram for ArtiFlo
11
2. Project Requirements
2.2 Use Cases
2.2.1 Use Case 1: AI-Powered BPMN Diagram Generation
Attribute Description
Actor Instructor
Preconditions - The instructor is logged into the system.
- The system is ready to process natural language descriptions.
Basic Flow 1. The instructor selects the "AI-Powered BPMN Generation" feature
from the dashboard.
2. Inputs a natural language description of a business process.
3. The system processes the input using its AI engine to generate a
BPMN diagram.
4. The system displays the generated diagram for review.
5. The instructor can modify or conﬁrm the generated diagram.
6. If modiﬁcations are needed, the instructor edits the diagram, and the
system updates it accordingly.
Alternative Flow If the system cannot accurately interpret the input:
- The system requests more detailed input from the instructor.
- The instructor revises the input, and the process continues from step
3.
Postconditions - A BPMN diagram is generated and stored in the system.
- The instructor can save, export, or further modify the diagram.
Special Requirements - The AI engine must support multiple domains (e.g., healthcare, ﬁ-
nance).
- The system should handle ambiguous input by providing suggestions.
Table 2.1: Use Case 1: AI-Powered BPMN Diagram Generation
12
2.2 Use Cases
2.2.2 Use Case 2: Manual BPMN Diagram Creation
Attribute Description
Actors Student, Instructor
Preconditions - The user (student or instructor) is logged into the system.
- The drag-and-drop diagramming interface is available.
Basic Flow 1. The user selects "Manual BPMN Diagram Creation" from the dash-
board.
2. The system opens the BPMN diagramming workspace with a blank
canvas.
3. The user selects BPMN elements (tasks, events, gateways, etc.) from
the library and places them on the canvas.
4. The user connects the elements using sequence ﬂows.
5. The user arranges and organizes the diagram by dragging and snap-
ping elements to the grid.
6. The user can undo/redo actions as necessary during the process.
Alternative Flow If the user needs help with a speciﬁc BPMN element, they can consult
the AI chatbot for real-time assistance.
Postconditions - The manual BPMN diagram is saved in the system.
- The user can export the diagram or continue working on it later.
Special Requirements - The system must support undo/redo functionality.
- The interface should provide tooltips explaining the use of each BPMN
element.
Table 2.2: Use Case 2: Manual BPMN Diagram Creation
13
2. Project Requirements
2.2.3 Use Case 3: Real-Time BPMN Validation
Attribute Description
Actors Student, Instructor
Preconditions - The user is working on a BPMN diagram, either generated by the AI
or created manually.
- Real-time validation is enabled.
Basic Flow 1. As the user works on the BPMN diagram, the system continuously
checks the diagram for compliance with BPMN 2.0 standards.
2. The system detects any errors (e.g., disconnected elements, missing
end events, incorrect sequence ﬂows).
3. The system highlights the error location in the diagram and displays
a message explaining the issue.
4. The user clicks the highlighted error to view detailed suggestions for
correction.
5. The user corrects the error based on the system’s guidance, and the
system validates the updated diagram.
Alternative Flow The user can choose to disable real-time validation to focus on creating
the diagram without interruptions.
Postconditions - The BPMN diagram is validated and complies with BPMN 2.0 stan-
dards.
- All errors are resolved, or the user has chosen to ignore validation
warnings.
Special Requirements - The system must provide detailed error messages with suggestions for
correction.
- Real-time validation should not slow down the diagramming process.
Table 2.3: Use Case 3: Real-Time BPMN Validation
14
2.2 Use Cases
2.2.4 Use Case 4: Real-Time Assistance and Feedback
Attribute Description
Actors Student, Instructor
Preconditions - The user is logged in and working on a BPMN diagram.
- The AI assistant is available to provide feedback.
Basic Flow 1. The user begins creating or modifying a BPMN diagram.
2. The system monitors the user’s actions and provides feedback or
suggestions in real-time.
3. The system analyzes the current diagram and predicts the next logical
element (e.g., a gateway after a task).
4. The system offers a tooltip.
5. The user can accept or reject the suggestion.
Alternative Flow If the user is unsure of a speciﬁc BPMN concept, they can consult the
AI chatbot for guidance.
Postconditions - The user receives continuous feedback on their diagram.
- The diagram is enhanced by the system’s suggestions.
Special Requirements - The AI assistant must respond to diagram modiﬁcations in real-time
without delays.
- Predictive assistance should be context-sensitive and relevant to the
user’s current workﬂow.
Table 2.4: Use Case 4: Real-Time Assistance and Feedback
15
2. Project Requirements
2.2.5 Use Case 5: Activity Logging and Performance Monitoring
Attribute Description
Actor Instructor
Preconditions - The system is actively logging all user actions.
Basic Flow 1. The system logs every user action, including adding, editing, or delet-
ing BPMN elements.
2. The system tracks the time spent on each diagram component.
3. The system aggregates the data and stores it for performance analysis.
4. The instructor can view detailed logs of student activities to monitor
progress.
Postconditions - All activities are logged and accessible by the instructor.
- Logs are securely stored for future analysis.
Special Requirements - The system must handle large volumes of log data without perfor-
mance degradation.
- Data should be securely stored and protected.
Table 2.5: Use Case 5: Activity Logging and Performance Monitoring
16
2.2 Use Cases
2.2.6 Use Case 6: Performance Reports
Attribute Description
Actor Instructor
Preconditions - Activity logs and performance data are available for analysis.
Basic Flow 1. The instructor accesses the report generation feature from the teacher
dashboard.
2. The system analyzes student activities, including time spent on tasks,
revisions, and common mistakes.
3. The system generates a performance report that includes charts and
graphs for easy interpretation.
4. The instructor reviews the report and identiﬁes areas where students
are struggling.
5. The instructor uses the report to offer personalized feedback to stu-
dents.
Postconditions - The instructor receives a detailed report of student performance.
- Students receive targeted feedback based on their performance.
Special Requirements - The reports must include visual aids (charts, graphs) to summarize
data.
- The system should allow the instructor to export reports in PDF or
Excel formats.
Table 2.6: Use Case 6: Performance Reports
17
2. Project Requirements
2.2.7 Use Case 7: Export/Import BPMN Diagrams
Attribute Description
Actors Student, Instructor
Preconditions - The user has created or is working on a BPMN diagram.
Basic Flow 1. The user selects the export option from the diagramming interface.
2. The system offers a choice of formats (e.g., PNG, SVG, XML,
BPMN 2.0 XML).
3. The user selects the desired format and downloads the diagram.
4. The user can also import an existing diagram by selecting the import
option.
5. The system validates the imported diagram and allows the user to
edit it.
Alternative Flow If the imported diagram is incompatible, the system notiﬁes the user and
suggests corrective actions.
Postconditions - The diagram is exported in the chosen format or successfully imported
for editing.
Special Requirements - The system must ensure compatibility between various BPMN for-
mats.
- Exported diagrams must retain their structure and visual quality.
Table 2.7: Use Case 7: Export/Import BPMN Diagrams
18
2.2 Use Cases
2.2.8 Use Case 8: AI Chatbot Support
Attribute Description
Actor Student
Preconditions - The student is logged into the system and has access to the chatbot.
Basic Flow 1. The student initiates a conversation with the AI-powered chatbot by
asking a question.
2. The chatbot processes the query and responds with relevant BPMN
information or guidance.
3. The chatbot suggests next steps based on the student’s current dia-
gram state or query.
4. The student follows the guidance or asks follow-up questions as
needed.
Postconditions - The student receives helpful responses from the chatbot.
- The chatbot assists the student in completing their BPMN diagram.
Special Requirements - The chatbot must respond within 2 seconds of receiving a query.
Table 2.8: Use Case 8: AI Chatbot Support
19
2. Project Requirements
2.3 Functional Requirements
The following are the core functional requirements of ArtiFlo, organized by major system
modules. Each module represents a key feature area of the system.
2.3.1 Module 1: BPMN Diagram Creation
This module enables users to create and manipulate BPMN diagrams with ease.
1. FR1: AI-powered BPMN generation: The system shall enable instructors to gen-
erate BPMN diagrams by inputting natural language descriptions of business pro-
cesses.
(a) FR1.1: The AI engine shall process the input and recognize standard patterns
to generate a BPMN-compliant diagram.
• FR1.1.1: The AI engine shall handle ambiguous process descriptions by
offering suggestions for clariﬁcation.
• FR1.1.2: The engine shall support business processes across various do-
mains (e.g., ﬁnance, healthcare).
(b) FR1.2: The system shall provide users with an option to conﬁrm or edit the
auto-generated diagram.
• FR1.2.1: Users shall be able to modify elements such as tasks, gateways,
and events in the generated diagram.
• FR1.2.2: The system shall provide recommendations for correcting er-
rors or improving the process.
(c) FR1.3: The system shall allow for saving generated diagrams in progress to
continue later.
2. FR2: Manual BPMN creation interface : The system shall provide a drag-and-
drop interface that allows students to manually create BPMN diagrams, including
all standard BPMN elements (e.g., tasks, events, gateways).
(a) FR2.1: The interface shall include a side panel with a library of BPMN ele-
ments (tasks, subprocesses, events, and gateways).
• FR2.1.1: The library shall be categorized into types of elements (e.g.,
tasks, events, gateways) for easier access.
• FR2.1.2: Hovering over elements in the library shall provide a tooltip
explaining its use.
20
2.3 Functional Requirements
(b) FR2.2: Users shall be able to place elements onto a canvas and connect them
using sequence ﬂows.
• FR2.2.1: The system shall snap elements to a grid to maintain alignment.
• FR2.2.2: Users shall be able to click and drag to rearrange the elements.
(c) FR2.3: The system shall allow users to undo/redo actions during diagram
creation.
• FR2.3.1: The undo/redo feature shall support up to 50 actions in se-
quence.
3. FR3: Diagram modiﬁcation tools : Users shall be able to edit, resize, and delete
BPMN elements in the diagram.
(a) FR3.1: Users shall be able to click on an element to access a context menu
with options to edit or delete the element.
(b) FR3.2: Users shall be able to resize certain elements, such as pools and lanes,
by clicking and dragging their edges.
(c) FR3.3: Deleted elements shall trigger a conﬁrmation prompt before removal.
4. FR4: Real-time BPMN validation: The system shall validate BPMN diagrams in
real-time against BPMN 2.0 standards.
(a) FR4.1: Validation errors shall be displayed to users with a description of the
problem and suggestions for correction.
• FR4.1.1: Errors shall include issues such as disconnected elements, miss-
ing end events, or incorrect sequence ﬂows.
• FR4.1.2: Users shall be guided on how to resolve the error by clicking on
a tooltip associated with the error message.
(b) FR4.2: Users shall be able to disable real-time validation if desired to focus
on diagram creation.
2.3.2 Module 2: Real-Time Assistance and Feedback
This module provides users with AI-driven feedback while creating BPMN diagrams to
enhance learning.
1. FR1: Real-time error detection : The system shall detect structural errors in the
BPMN diagram and notify users immediately, displaying visual cues and offering
explanations.
21
2. Project Requirements
(a) FR1.1: The system shall highlight the error location with a red border around
the problematic element.
(b) FR1.2: The system shall provide a pop-up message with a description of the
error and suggestions for resolution.
2. FR2: Predictive assistance: The system shall offer predictive assistance, suggest-
ing the next logical step or BPMN element based on the user’s current diagram
state.
(a) FR2.1: The system shall analyze the process ﬂow and predict the most likely
next element.
(b) FR2.2: Users shall have the option to accept or reject the suggestion, which
will appear as a tooltip.
3. FR3: AI chatbot support : An AI-powered chatbot shall be available to provide
contextual help related to BPMN elements, processes, and the system interface.
(a) FR3.1: The chatbot shall respond to user queries within 2 seconds.
(b) FR3.2: Users shall be able to ask the chatbot for speciﬁc help regarding
BPMN notation and best practices.
(c) FR3.3: The chatbot shall integrate with external BPMN-related resources for
additional guidance.
2.3.3 Module 3: Activity Logging and Performance Monitoring
This module tracks user activity for performance evaluation and feedback.
1. FR1: Comprehensive activity logging: The system shall log all user actions (e.g.,
creating, modifying, deleting elements) with timestamps.
(a) FR1.1: Activity logs shall include details of the action, the speciﬁc element,
and the time of occurrence.
(b) FR1.2: Logs shall be stored securely in a database for future analysis.
2. FR2: Time tracking: The system shall track the time spent on each diagram com-
ponent by individual students.
(a) FR2.1: Time spent per element shall be broken down and accessible by the
instructor.
(b) FR2.2: Time tracking data shall be aggregated to provide an overall time spent
per diagram.
22
2.4 Non-Functional Requirements
3. FR3: Performance metrics: The system shall generate performance metrics based
on logged activities.
(a) FR3.1: The system shall analyze user activity and generate reports that high-
light areas of strength and areas for improvement.
(b) FR3.2: Reports shall include visual charts and graphs for easy interpretation.
2.4 Non-Functional Requirements
The non-functional requirements focus on the quality attributes that deﬁne the system’s
performance, usability, reliability, and security.
2.4.1 Reliability
• NFR1: High system availability
1. NFR1.1: The system shall maintain an uptime of 99.9 during peak usage times
(e.g., class hours).
– NFR1.1.1 : Uptime will be monitored continuously with real-time alerts
for downtime.
– NFR1.1.2 : Scheduled maintenance periods shall be communicated to
users at least 24 hours in advance.
2. NFR1.2: System downtime (excluding planned maintenance) shall not exceed
10 minutes per month.
– NFR1.2.1 : System recovery protocols shall ensure a recovery time ob-
jective (RTO) of less than 5 minutes.
• NFR2: Data backup and recovery
1. NFR2.1: The system shall perform automated backups daily to ensure no
more than 24 hours of data is lost.
– NFR2.1.1 : Backup veriﬁcation shall be conducted weekly to ensure data
integrity.
– NFR2.1.2 : Backup data shall be stored in a secure, redundant cloud-
based solution.
2. NFR2.2: In case of system failure, recovery procedures shall restore services
within 15 minutes of detection.
– NFR2.2.1 : The system shall prioritize recovery of critical services, in-
cluding diagram creation and student progress tracking.
23
2. Project Requirements
• NFR3: Failure detection and alerting
1. NFR3.1: The system shall detect critical failures and trigger alerts to system
administrators within 2 minutes of an outage.
– NFR3.1.1 : Alerts shall be delivered through multiple channels, including
email and SMS.
– NFR3.1.2 : An incident response protocol shall be followed to notify
stakeholders and initiate troubleshooting.
2.4.2 Usability
• NFR1: Intuitive user interface
1. NFR1.1: The interface shall be designed to allow students and instructors
to navigate core features (e.g., BPMN creation, feedback access) within 5
minutes of ﬁrst use.
– NFR1.1.1 : User testing shall be conducted with students and instructors
to ensure ease of use.
– NFR1.1.2 : Contextual tooltips shall guide users through complex actions
(e.g., advanced BPMN elements).
2. NFR1.2: An onboarding tutorial shall be provided to new users, guiding them
through the essential functions of the system.
– NFR1.2.1 : The tutorial shall be interactive and context-sensitive, adapt-
ing to user roles (student or instructor).
• NFR2: Keyboard shortcuts
1. NFR2.1: The system shall support keyboard shortcuts for common actions,
such as undo, redo, and copy/paste.
– NFR2.1.1 : A reference list of shortcuts shall be accessible from the user
interface.
• NFR3: Accessibility features
1. NFR3.1: The system shall comply with WCAG 2.1 standards for accessibility,
ensuring compatibility with screen readers and high-contrast themes.
– NFR3.1.1 : All key features shall be navigable using only a keyboard.
– NFR3.1.2 : Visual elements shall have adequate contrast ratios, and alter-
nate text descriptions for all media (e.g., icons, buttons).
24
2.4 Non-Functional Requirements
2. NFR3.2: Users with disabilities shall be able to request custom accessibility
features through their settings page.
– NFR3.2.1 : Customizations may include color adjustments, text size mod-
iﬁcations, and speech-to-text input.
2.4.3 Performance
• NFR1: Response time
1. NFR1.1: The system shall provide real-time feedback with a response time of
1 second or less for user interactions.
– NFR1.1.1 : This includes feedback during BPMN diagram creation (e.g.,
error detection, predictive assistance).
– NFR1.1.2 : The system shall cache frequently accessed elements (e.g.,
BPMN shapes) to reduce load times.
2. NFR1.2: Latency shall not exceed 2 seconds during peak usage, even with up
to 1000 concurrent users.
– NFR1.2.1 : Load balancing techniques shall be employed to distribute
user requests evenly across servers.
• NFR2: Scalability
1. NFR2.1: The system shall scale horizontally to support up to 5000 concurrent
users without degradation in performance.
– NFR2.1.1 : The system shall monitor and dynamically allocate resources
based on usage patterns (e.g., peak usage hours).
2. NFR2.2: The system architecture shall support modular updates, allowing
new features to be added without major downtime.
2.4.4 Security
• NFR1: Data encryption
1. NFR1.1: All data transmission shall be encrypted using TLS 1.2 or higher.
– NFR1.1.1 : The system shall enforce encryption for all user data, includ-
ing login credentials, BPMN diagrams, and activity logs.
2. NFR1.2: Data at rest shall be encrypted using AES-256 encryption.
– NFR1.2.1 : This includes all user data stored in the database, including
diagram data and performance metrics.
25
2. Project Requirements
• NFR2: User authentication
1. NFR2.1: The system shall implement multi-factor authentication (MFA) for
all users.
– NFR2.1.1 : MFA shall require a combination of a password and a time-
based one-time password (TOTP) via a mobile app or SMS.
2. NFR2.2: Passwords shall be stored using a salted hash (e.g., bcrypt) to prevent
reverse-engineering in case of a breach.
– NFR2.2.1 : The system shall prompt users to change passwords every 90
days.
• NFR3: GDPR compliance
1. NFR3.1: The system shall comply with GDPR regulations for user data pro-
tection and privacy.
– NFR3.1.1 : The system shall provide a consent mechanism for collecting
user data.
– NFR3.1.2 : Users shall be able to request deletion of their personal data
in compliance with the "right to be forgotten."
2. NFR3.2: Data processing agreements shall be in place with all third-party
service providers.
2.5 User Personiﬁcations (Personas)
2.5.1 Persona 1: The Undergraduate Student
Name: Person A
Age: 21
Role: Undergraduate Business Management Student
Experience Level: Beginner in Business Process Modeling (BPMN)
Educational Background: Third-year business student who is just starting to learn about
business process modeling in her course.
Goals:
• To master BPMN concepts through practice.
• To complete BPMN-related assignments and projects efﬁciently.
• To improve her BPMN diagramming skills with real-time feedback.
26
2.5 User Personiﬁcations (Personas)
Frustrations:
• Finds it difﬁcult to grasp all the BPMN elements.
• Often struggles with creating accurate BPMN diagrams.
• Feels overwhelmed with errors in her diagrams and would like more guidance.
Technology Comfort Level:Medium (comfortable with using online tools but not highly
tech-savvy).
Usage Scenario: Person A logs in to ArtiFlo to complete a BPMN diagram for her course
assignment (assigned to her by her instructor). She uses the manual BPMN creation
feature to drag and drop elements. When she encounters errors, she relies on real-time
feedback and the AI chatbot to guide her through corrections.
2.5.2 Persona 2: The University Instructor
Name: Person B
Age: 45
Role: Professor of Business Process Modeling
Experience Level: Expert in BPMN and Business Process Management
Educational Background: PhD in Information Systems and over 15 years of teaching
BPMN.
Goals:
• To teach BPMN concepts efﬁciently to students.
• To monitor student progress and provide tailored feedback.
• To create multiple BPMN examples for course materials quickly.
Frustrations:
• Struggles to manage large classes and provide personalized feedback to every stu-
dent.
• Finds it time-consuming to create BPMN diagrams manually.
• Wants a better way to track student progress and identify areas of difﬁculty.
27
2. Project Requirements
Technology Comfort Level: High (well-versed in online tools and software platforms).
Usage Scenario: Person B uses ArtiFlo to generate BPMN diagrams for lectures. They
leverage the AI-powered BPMN generation to quickly create diagrams from natural lan-
guage descriptions. They then use the teacher dashboard to track the progress of their
students and provide tailored feedback. For assignments, Person B views performance
reports to identify which students are struggling with speciﬁc BPMN concepts.
2.5.3 Persona 3: The Graduate Student
Name: Person C
Age: 25
Role: Graduate Business Analyst Student
Experience Level: Intermediate in BPMN
Educational Background: Master’s student in Business Process Management, has some
experience with BPMN in her internships.
Goals:
• To enhance BPMN skills for real-world business scenarios.
• To get real-time feedback on complex BPMN diagrams.
• To learn more advanced BPMN techniques and optimize diagrams.
Frustrations:
• Sometimes struggles with complex process ﬂows and deciding the right BPMN
elements.
• Needs more advanced feedback on how to optimize diagrams beyond basic correc-
tions.
Technology Comfort Level: High (very comfortable with technology and online tools).
Usage Scenario: Person C uses the real-time assistance and feedback feature of ArtiFlo
to ensure her BPMN diagrams follow best practices. She often experiments with more
advanced diagrams, and the system’s assistance helps her understand the next steps for
optimization. She uses the export/import functionality to share diagrams with classmates
for collaborative projects.
28
2.6 Use Case Diagram
2.5.4 Persona 4: The Business Process Analyst
Name: Person D
Age: 35
Role: Business Process Analyst at a large consulting ﬁrm
Experience Level: Expert in BPMN and process optimization
Professional Background: 10 years of experience in analyzing and optimizing business
processes using BPMN and other methodologies.
Goals:
• To create precise BPMN diagrams for business clients.
• To streamline complex business processes by visualizing them in BPMN.
• To have a reliable tool that validates BPMN diagrams for real-time corrections.
Frustrations:
• Finds manual diagramming tedious for complex processes.
• Needs a tool that can validate BPMN diagrams and prevent errors during creation.
• Often works under tight deadlines, so speed and accuracy are essential.
Technology Comfort Level:High (advanced user of business process management tools).
Usage Scenario: Person D uses the AI-powered BPMN generation feature to quickly
create diagrams from client descriptions of business processes. They rely on real-time
validation to ensure the diagrams are error-free and comply with BPMN standards. Person
D also appreciates the import/export functionality that allows sharing BPMN diagrams
with clients or integrating them into other tools.
2.6 Use Case Diagram
The Use Case Diagram provides a visual representation of the interactions between users
(students, instructors) and the functionalities of the ArtiFlo system. It illustrates how
users can create and modify BPMN diagrams, access feedback, and generate reports. The
actors represented in the diagram correspond to the user personas detailed in the previous
section. Refer to Figure 2.22.2 for a detailed view.
29
2. Project Requirements
Figure 2.2: Use Case Diagram for ArtiFlo
2.7 Domain Model
The domain model for ArtiFlo illustrates the main entities and their relationships within
the BPMN creation environment. The key entities are as follows:
• User: Represents system users, including both students and instructors.
– Student : A user who creates BPMN diagrams and submits assignments for
evaluation.
– Instructor : A user who manages courses, assigns tasks, and provides feed-
back on student submissions.
• Course: A structured program of study that encompasses various BPMN assign-
ments and is associated with instructors and students.
• Assignment: A speciﬁc task assigned by instructors to students, which requires the
creation of BPMN diagrams.
30
2.7 Domain Model
• Diagram: A BPMN diagram created or edited by students, consisting of BPMN
elements such as tasks, events, and gateways.
• Activity Log: Records each user’s interaction with the system for tracking pur-
poses, including actions taken on diagrams and assignments.
• Performance Report: A summary of performance metrics and feedback based on
user activities, used by instructors to assess student progress and identify areas for
improvement.
• Feedback: Input provided by instructors on submitted diagrams, highlighting strengths
and areas needing revision.
Figure 2.3: Domain Model for ArtiFlo
31

Chapter 3
System Overview
The "ArtiFlo: Mastering Business Process Modeling" system is a comprehensive web-
based platform designed to enhance business process modeling education through the
integration of advanced technologies like Large Language Models (LLMs), real-time val-
idation, and diagram creation tools. It enables users (students and instructors) to create
BPMN diagrams through natural language descriptions and manual drag-and-drop func-
tionality, receiving instant feedback and validation on their work. The system is built with
a modular architecture to ensure scalability, responsiveness, and ease of maintenance.
The system is composed of ﬁve major components:
• LLM Microservice: Responsible for AI-driven features, such as generating BPMN
diagrams from natural language prompts. This service is deployed on a cloud server
using Flask and Python libraries, providing the ability to interpret user inputs and
deliver intelligent suggestions.
• BPMN Linter and Validator: A Node.js-based service that validates BPMN 2.0
XML ﬁles, ensuring compliance with BPMN standards and returning detailed re-
ports on any detected errors or inconsistencies.
• Main Server: Built with ASP.NET Core and Blazor Pages, this server manages
both server-side and client-side interactions. Blazor WebAssembly (W ASM) en-
ables high-performance client-side code execution, particularly for the diagram-
ming interface, reducing latency and improving responsiveness.
• Logs Analyzer: This microservice is responsible for analyzing activity logs gen-
erated by users. It processes log data to identify patterns, detect anomalies, and
provide insights into user behavior and system performance. This service aids in
maintaining system reliability and improving user experience through data-driven
decisions.
33
3. System Overview
• Performance Report Generator : This microservice generates detailed perfor-
mance reports for both students and instructors based on their activities within the
system. It compiles metrics such as completion rates, assignment grades, and over-
all engagement, helping educators track student progress and improve instructional
strategies.
The system also uses:
• Syncfusion for rich UI diagramming components.
• Tailwind CSS for modern, responsive frontend design.
• SignalR for real-time communication between the client and server.
• PostgreSQL and Entity Framework Core for data storage and management.
3.1 Architectural Design
3.1.1 Modular Program Structure
The architecture follows a modular microservice-based design to promote separation
of concerns, scalability, and ease of deployment. Below is a high-level overview of the
modules:
• LLM Microservice:
– Purpose : Provides AI capabilities such as converting natural language to
BPMN diagrams.
– Technology : Hosted using Flask and Python on a cloud server.
– Communication : Exposes an API that the main server calls when users re-
quest AI-generated BPMN diagrams or real-time feedback.
• BPMN Linter and Validator:
– Purpose : Validates BPMN diagrams by analyzing BPMN 2.0 XML ﬁles and
returning a list of any structural errors.
– Technology : Built using Node.js.
– Communication : Provides a RESTful API that the main server uses to vali-
date diagrams submitted by users.
• Main Server:
34
3.1 Architectural Design
– Purpose : The core hub that connects the frontend and backend components.
Handles user requests, validates data, and orchestrates communication be-
tween other services.
– Technology : ASP.NET Core with Blazor Pages for both server-side rendering
(SSR) and client-side rendering (CSR) via W ASM.
– Key Features :
∗ Blazor WebAssembly (W ASM): Allows client-side execution of C# code,
improving responsiveness for complex tasks like diagram manipulation.
∗ SignalR: Provides real-time updates and communication, especially use-
ful for AI feedback and validation tasks that require server interaction.
∗ Syncfusion: Powers the diagramming tool with extensive components
for BPMN creation.
∗ Tailwind CSS: Ensures a responsive and modern UI.
∗ Entity Framework Core: Manages database operations with PostgreSQL.
∗ AutoMapper: Simpliﬁes object mapping between different layers of the
application.
• Logs Analyzer:
– Purpose : Analyzes user activity logs to extract valuable insights and detect
anomalies.
– Technology : Built using a suitable data processing framework, potentially
utilizing Python or Node.js for analytics.
– Communication : Provides an API to deliver insights and analytics back to
the main server or directly to users as needed.
• Performance Report Generator:
– Purpose : Generates performance reports based on user activities, helping
track student progress and instructor effectiveness.
– Technology : Developed using a server-side language such as ASP.NET Core
or Python.
– Communication : Offers an API to facilitate report generation requests from
the main server.
• Database (PostgreSQL):
– Purpose : Stores user data, activity logs, diagrams, and performance reports.
– Technology : Managed by PostgreSQL and accessed using Entity Framework
Core.
35
3. System Overview
3.1.2 Cloud Architecture Overview
The cloud-based infrastructure of the ArtiFlo platform is visualized in the diagram titled
ArtiFlo Cloud Architecture (refer to Figure 3.13.1). This architecture is designed to ensure
high availability, scalability, and security through the use of cloud-native technologies.
Below is an overview of the main components in the diagram:
Figure 3.1: Cloud Architecture
3.1.3 Future Evolution
While this is the current architecture, the system is designed to be ﬂexible. Additional
microservices may be introduced in the future to support new features or enhance the per-
formance of existing ones. Certain services may also evolve, be replaced, or be optimized
as the needs of the system grow. The modular nature of the architecture ensures that such
changes can be implemented with minimal disruption to the overall system.
36
3.2 Design Models
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1 Activity Diagram
The following Activity Diagram illustrates the ﬂow of interactions within the Business
Process Modeling system. It represents the actions taken by instructors and students
throughout the system, emphasizing the key processes involved in course management,
assignment creation, BPMN diagram development, and feedback mechanisms.
• Login: Both the instructor and student log into the system. The system veriﬁes
their credentials.
• Create Course: The instructor creates a new course or selects an existing one for
the students.
• Assign Assignment: The instructor creates and assigns a BPMN-related assign-
ment to the students.
• Select Course/Assignment: The student selects the assigned course and BPMN
assignment from their dashboard.
• Create BPMN Diagram: The student utilizes the BPMN diagramming tool to
create their diagram.
• Receive Real-Time Feedback: The system provides real-time feedback to the stu-
dent, identifying any syntax or semantic errors in their BPMN diagram.
• Revise Diagram: Based on the feedback received, the student revises their BPMN
diagram.
• Submit Diagram: The student submits the ﬁnalized BPMN diagram for review by
the instructor.
• Monitor Student Progress: The instructor views real-time progress reports or per-
formance data of students working on the assignments.
• Provide Feedback: After reviewing the submitted diagrams, the instructor pro-
vides feedback to the students.
• Log Activity: The system logs every interaction made by both the instructor and
student, including diagram creation, feedback received, and submission details.
• Generate Reports: The system generates performance reports for the instructor,
summarizing student progress and areas for improvement.
37
3. System Overview
• Log Out: Both the instructor and student log out of the system upon completion of
their tasks.
Refer to Figure 3.23.2 for a visual representation of the system’s activity ﬂow.
Figure 3.2: Activity Diagram for Business Process Modeling System
3.2.2 Class Diagram
The Class Diagram provides a visual representation of the system’s structure, highlighting
the relationships between various classes involved in the ArtiFlo project. For better read-
ability and understanding, the Class Diagram has been divided into two distinct diagrams:
38
3.2 Design Models
3.2.2.1 Core Components Class Diagram
The ﬁrst class diagram focuses on the core components of the system, including enti-
ties related to the BPMN process and user interactions. This diagram encompasses the
following classes:
• Course
• Assignment
• Student
• Instructor
• Feedback
• BPMNDiagram
• PerformanceReport
• ActivityLog
• Submission
This separation allows for a more straightforward view of the main functionalities and
interactions within the ArtiFlo platform, emphasizing user roles and the core workﬂow
related to business process modeling.
3.2.2.2 Supporting Services Class Diagram
The second class diagram encompasses the supporting services and infrastructure of the
system. It includes:
• NotificationService
• ConfigurationService
• AuthenticationService
• UnitOfWork
• LoggingService
• Repositories:
– UserRepository
39
3. System Overview
– BPMNDiagramRepository
– FeedbackRepository
– SubmissionRepository
– CourseRepository
– AssignmentRepository
– ActivityLogRepository
• Interfaces:
– IUserRepository
– IBPMNDiagramRepository
– IFeedbackRepository
– ISubmissionRepository
– ICourseRepository
– IAssignmentRepository
– IActivityLogRepository
This diagram focuses on the technical architecture and operational services that support
the core components, ensuring modularity and separation of concerns. By isolating these
services, we enhance the maintainability and scalability of the system while allowing
developers to focus on backend processes without cluttering the primary user-facing in-
teractions.
Together, these two class diagrams provide a comprehensive view of the system’s archi-
tecture, facilitating both high-level understanding and detailed technical insights. Refer
to Figures 3.33.3 and 3.43.4 for detailed views of each diagram.
40
3.2 Design Models
Figure 3.3: Core Components Class Diagram for ArtiFlo
41
3. System Overview
Figure 3.4: Supporting Services Class Diagram for ArtiFlo
3.2.3 Class-Level Sequence Diagrams
Class-level sequence diagrams provide a detailed view of the interactions between various
objects and components of the ArtiFlo system. These diagrams help in understanding
the ﬂow of processes and the exchange of messages in response to speciﬁc events. The
following class-level sequence diagrams capture key interactions within the system:
3.2.3.1 BPMN Diagram Creation
The BPMN Diagram Creation sequence illustrates how users interact with the system to
generate BPMN diagrams, either through manual creation or AI-powered assistance. This
42
3.2 Design Models
interaction involves the following components: theStudent, Instructor, BPMNDiagram,
BPMNRepository, and the BPMNValidator. Refer to Figure 3.53.5 for a detailed diagram.
Figure 3.5: Class-Level Sequence Diagram for BPMN Diagram Creation
3.2.3.2 Course and Assignment Management
This diagram illustrates the ﬂow of interactions between students, instructors, and the
system for course and assignment management, including submission and grading. The
primary components involved are Course, Assignment, Student, Instructor, and the
relevant repositories. See Figure 3.63.6 for details.
Figure 3.6: Class-Level Sequence Diagram for Course and Assignment Management
43
3. System Overview
3.2.3.3 Feedback Management
This sequence diagram shows how feedback is managed within the system, from the
instructor providing feedback to the student receiving it. The components involved are
Instructor, Feedback, FeedbackRepository, and Student. Refer to Figure 3.73.7 for
more details.
Figure 3.7: Class-Level Sequence Diagram for Feedback Management
3.2.3.4 Real-Time Feedback and Validation
The Real-Time Feedback and Validation diagram demonstrates how students receive in-
stant feedback and validation while creating BPMN diagrams. This process includes
interaction between Student, BPMNValidator, and the FeedbackRepository. Figure
3.83.8 provides the detailed interaction ﬂow.
Figure 3.8: Class-Level Sequence Diagram for Real-Time Feedback and Validation
44
3.2 Design Models
3.2.3.5 Activity Logging and Reporting
This diagram outlines how activity logs are generated and used to create performance re-
ports for users. The interaction includesActivityLog, PerformanceReport, Instructor,
and Student. Refer to Figure 3.93.9 for the diagram.
Figure 3.9: Class-Level Sequence Diagram for Activity Logging and Reporting
3.2.3.6 User Authentication
The User Authentication sequence diagram demonstrates the process of authenticating
users within the system. This interaction includes User, AuthenticationService, and
UserRepository. See Figure 3.103.10 for a detailed diagram.
45
3. System Overview
Figure 3.10: Class-Level Sequence Diagram for User Authentication
46
3.3 Data Design
3.2.3.7 Notiﬁcations Service
The Notiﬁcations Service sequence diagram details how notiﬁcations are generated and
sent to users. This includes interactions between User, NotificationService, and
NotificationRepository. Figure 3.113.11 illustrates the process.
Figure 3.11: Class-Level Sequence Diagram for Notiﬁcations Service
3.3 Data Design
The data design of the "ArtiFlo: Mastering Business Process Modeling" system is crucial
for effectively managing and processing the information generated by users within the
platform. The system utilizes a relational database model, speciﬁcally PostgreSQL, to
store and organize its data. The following sections outline the key entities in the system
and how they relate to each other.
3.3.1 Major Data Entities
• User
47
3. System Overview
– The User table is central to the system, storing information about all users, in-
cluding students and instructors. Key attributes includeUserID, Name, Email,
Password, and Role, allowing for authentication and role-based access con-
trol.
– Email veriﬁcation and authentication mechanisms are not detailed in the ERD
but are vital for user registration and security. Typically, a separateAuthKeys
table would store tokens for email veriﬁcation, password resets, and other
security-related processes.
• Student
– The Student table is linked to the User table through the StudentID, which
serves as a foreign key. This table captures speciﬁc attributes relevant to stu-
dents, such as Major, YearOfStudy, and GPA, enabling personalized learning
experiences and tracking academic performance.
• Instructor
– Similar to the Student entity, the Instructor table is associated with the
User table. It stores information speciﬁc to instructors, including their depart-
ment and ofﬁce hours, facilitating communication and resource allocation for
students.
• Course
– The Course table maintains details about various courses offered within the
platform. Each course is linked to an instructor through the InstructorID,
ensuring that each course can be properly assigned and managed.
• Assignment
– The Assignment table records the assignments related to each course. It con-
tains information such as DueDate and Description, facilitating assignment
management and tracking for both students and instructors.
• Submission
– The Submission table captures students’ submissions for assignments. Each
submission is linked to a speciﬁc student and assignment, along with attributes
like SubmissionDate and Grade, allowing instructors to evaluate student per-
formance effectively.
• BPMN Diagram
48
3.3 Data Design
– This table stores the BPMN diagrams created by users. Each diagram includes
a title, description, and XML data representing the diagram, ensuring that
users can manage and retrieve their diagrams efﬁciently.
• Feedback
– The Feedback table links instructor feedback to speciﬁc submissions, allow-
ing for tailored assessments and comments that can guide student learning.
• Performance Report
– This table is essential for tracking student performance in courses, storing
metrics related to their progress and achievements.
• Activity Log
– The Activity Log records user actions within the platform, facilitating au-
diting and monitoring of user interactions.
3.3.2 ERD Visualization
The following ﬁgure illustrates the relationships among the various entities within the
system, showing how data is interconnected and structured:
3.3.3 Additional Considerations
While the current ERD includes the primary entities relevant for understanding the sys-
tem’s operation, it does not encompass all necessary components for a fully functioning
web application. For instance, aspects related to email veriﬁcation, authentication keys,
and security measures are critical but not depicted here. In a complete system design,
additional tables such as AuthKeys or Notifications for managing veriﬁcation tokens,
password recovery mechanisms, and user session management would be integrated to
enhance security and user experience.
49
3. System Overview
Figure 3.12: Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) for ArtiFlo
50

## 2. Overall Description



## 3. Specific Requirements
