# FYP1-MidReport-F24-168-D-BalleBaaz - i212512 Ibrahim Saqib

## 1. Introduction

1. Introduction
1.2 Scope
Our project is a development project, where we will be developing a cricket management
and engagement system which will cater to the needs of local cricketers. Our system
will have a scoring system, making scoring easy and smooth along with a stat tracker
that will record stats of all the players. The ground booking feature will allow teams to
book grounds easily and schedule matches. The match highlights feature will cover key
moments of the entire game whereas the player highlights feature will provide player-
based moments from the game. The drs system will enable fairness and justness in
matches, enabling teams to review lbw decisions. The weather monitoring system will
allow teams to check weather and schedule matches accordingly.
Our application will also contain an ai kit generation feature allowing teams to generate
shirt designs according to their style. The umpire booking system will allow umpires
to register for matches they want to officiate in. Moreover, the application will include a
coaching and drills section, providing different types of training sessions for the teams.
The fitness section will allow players to browse different exercises according to their
needs to optimise performance. Lastly, there will be a community section.Here teams
and players can communicate with one another. They can talk about organizing tourna-
ments, when the other teams are available for matches, or if a certain player wants to do a
training session.
1.3 Modules
1.3.1 Module 1
User management:This module will allow players, clubs, teams, coaches, umpires and
administration to register, log in, and manage their profiles.Permissions and access to
various features will depend on the user type.
1. Registration and Authentication: Players, teams, clubs coaches, umpires, and ad-
mins.
2. Profile Management: Handle personal information, statistics of players.
3. User Roles Permissions: Various functionalities tailored for each user type.
2
1.3 Modules
1.3.2 Module 2
Scoring and Stats Tracking: The Scoring feature will allow for an easy scoring system, re-
moving the need for scoring pads. The stat tracking system will enable players to monitor
their performances over matches.
1. Real-time scoring: Users can input the score ball by ball.
2. Stats Tracking: Stats of teams and Players will be recorded and shown post-match.
A history will be kept of all the stats.
3. Match History: Each player will have a stats section on their profile, where their
scores, wickets and other stats will be kept.
1.3.3 Module 3
Ground Booking System: Users will be able to book venues easily using the create match
feature which will provide an easy booking system removing the hassle of contacting
ground-staff.
1. Booking Management: Users will be able to choose ground, date and start time.
They will be able to choose match type, if it will be Invite only(will be joined using
link) or an open match. They can set match duration and pricing.
2. Clash-Free Scheduling: Guarantee that grounds are not double-booked.
1.3.4 Module 4
Match/Player Highlights: Users can view the match or player based highlights post-match
to check their performances and see where they can improve.
1. Automated Highlight Generation: Key moments will be compiled from the match
including wickets, boundaries and other key events.
1.3.5 Module 5
DRS System: Users can confirm controversial lbw decisions using the in-built drs system.
1. Drs will applied on recordings.
2. Will make use of ball tracking and hawk-eye.
3
1. Introduction
1.3.6 Module 6
Ai kit Generation: Users will be able to generate designs for their kits using the kit gen-
eration feature.
1. Users will be able to input the type of design, color that they want for their shirts
and output images will be generated.
1.3.7 Module 7
Umpire Booking: There will be an option for umpires to officiate the matches they want.
1. Users(Umpires) can check upcoming matches and decide that if they want to offi-
ciate the match by joining it or not.
1.3.8 Module 8
Add player feature in Lineup: There will be an option for players to join matches accord-
ing to their schedule by checking upcoming matches.
1. The add+ box in the lineups will allow players to send a request to the team captain
that will allow them to either confirm/decline the player according to their need.
1.3.9 Module 9
Coaching: Coaches can join the app and can provide training sessions to players.
1. Coaches will have the option to add drills for certain players where they feel that
player is lacking and schedule sessions for them.
1.3.10 Module 10
Fitness Section: Players can stay fit and by checking different exercises from the fitness
section.
1. Players will be able to search for specific exercises that they want to do and a list
of videos will be provided from where they can follow the videos to perform the
exercises.
4
1.4 User Classes and Characteristics
1.3.11 Module 11
Drills Section: Players can learn new techniques, skills according to their needs
1. Players will be able to search for specific drills that they want to do and a list of
videos will be provided from where they can follow the videos to perform the drills
and improve their game..
1.3.12 Module 12
Community Section: A community section where players and teams can communicate
with each other to schedule matches or training sessions.
1. Discussion forms and groups: Players, coaches and teams can engage in discussion
forms etc to keep up with different tournaments, matches and news and events.
1.4 User Classes and Characteristics
5
1. Introduction
User class Description
Player A player is a user who wants to view and join upcoming matches. They
can search for particular drills, keep track of their fitness/exercises and view
highlights of their matches. Furthermore, they can view their stats which
are updated after each match they play. Lastly, they can interact with other
players by sending messages in the community section.
Umpire The Umpire is a user who also wants to view upcoming matches and decide
to officiate in them by joining the match. The umpire can view a list of
upcoming matches(to join) and match history(Matches in which they have
officiated in) to check ratings.
Club Owner The Club owner is a user who wants to keep information about their venues.
They can check recent bookings(Booking details like venue, Teams, Time,
Date, Umpire and Match Fee) book an umpire for an upcoming match, check
if payments have been made or not. Lastly, they can keep a track of monthly
revenues generated.
Team Owner Team Owner is a user who wants to make Ground Bookings for their teams
to play in matches. They can view the stats of their team which are updated
after every match, upcoming matches of the team. In the community section
they can interact with other team owners and setup matches with them. They
have the option to generate kit designs for their teams and can watch team
highlights of matches. They can search for drills for their team.
Coach The coach is a user who can check which players are assigned to them and
can view information of assigned players(Batting-style, Bowling-style, in-
juries, Batting Avg, Bowling economy etc). The coach can setup training
sessions for the players and manage drills by check in duration, intensity,
and notes.
Example: User Classes and Characteristics
6
Chapter 2
Project Requirements
This chapter describes the functional and non-functional requirements of the project.
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
Figure 2.1: Use Case Diagram
2.1.1 Use-case 1
7
2. Project Requirements
Use Case ID UC-1
Name Analyze Performance
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Player
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The players will be able to view their match statistics, stats will
be accumulated over matches .
Pre-Condition The player must be logged into the system and have match data
available.
Post-Condition The system accumulates stats over matches which the player
views and can now know which areas to improve in.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The player goes to
the stats section of their
profile.
2. The system displays the player’s
statistics, including runs, wickets,
and other relevant stats.
3. The player selects a
particular match to an-
alyze, by filtering using
dates.
4. The system shows detailed stats
for the selected match, including
runs, wickets, and other relevant
stats of players.
5. The player reviews
the stats and match
summary provided.
6. The system offers improvements
in areas where player is lacking and
recommends drills.
Alternate Scenario A. No match data available:
1. The system informs the player that no match data is avail-
able.
2. A prompt is sent to tell the player to participate in matches
to check your performances.
B. The player wants to compare performance across multiple
matches:
1. The player selects a date range.
2. The system displays aggregated stats for the dates that have
been selected.
2.1.2 Use-case 2
8
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
Use Case ID UC-2
Name Join Match
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Player
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The player can browse available matches and request to join, help-
ing fill team rosters and ensuring more opportunities to play.
Pre-Condition The player must be logged into the system and have match data
available.
Post-Condition The player successfully joins a match, and the team captain con-
firms their participation.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The player navi-
gates to the upcoming
matches section.
2. The system shows a list of
matches to be held in the near fu-
ture, with dates, teams, and loca-
tions for each match.
3. The player selects
a match that fits their
schedule and clicks
"Join Match".
4. The system sends a request to the
team captain for approval, to let the
player join the team line-up.
5. The team captain ap-
proves the request.
6. The system notifies the player
of their successful addition to the
match lineup.
Alternate Scenario A. No available matches:
1. The system informs the player that there are no upcoming
matches to join.
2. The player is prompted to check back later or create a
match.
B. The match is full:
1. The system will inform the player that the match lineup is
full and no more spots are available.
2. The player is prompted to check other matches.
2.1.3 Use-case 3
9
2. Project Requirements
Use Case ID UC-3
Name Modify Profile
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Player
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The player can update their personal information, ensuring that
their profile is accurate and up-to-date
Pre-Condition The player must be logged into the system.
Post-Condition The player successfully updates their profile, and the changes are
reflected in the system.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The player navigates
to the "Profile" section.
2. The system displays the player’s
current profile information.
3. The player edits
fields such as contact
info, profile picture, or
bio.
4. The system validates the entered
data.
5. The player clicks
"Save".
6. The system updates the player’s
profile and confirms the changes.
Alternate Scenario A. Invalid data is entered:
1. The system detects invalid data (e.g., an improperly format-
ted email).
2. The system prompts the player to correct the errors and re-
submit the form.
2.1.4 Use-case 4
Use Case ID UC-4
Name Participate in Training Session
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Player
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The player can join training sessions scheduled by a coach, help-
ing them improve their skills.
Pre-Condition The player must be logged in and have access to scheduled train-
ing sessions.
10
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
Post-Condition The player participates in a training session and completes as-
signed drills.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The player navigates
to the "Training" sec-
tion.
2. The system displays a list of
available training sessions.
3. The player selects
a session and clicks
"Join".
4. The system confirms the player’s
participation and adds the session to
their schedule.
5. The player com-
pletes the training
drills.
6. The system tracks the player’s
performance and updates their pro-
file with session details.
Alternate Scenario A. No available training sessions:
1. The system informs the player that no sessions are avail-
able.
2. The player is prompted to check back later or request a ses-
sion from the coach.
2.1.5 Use-case 5
Use Case ID UC-5
Name Track Fitness Progress
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Player
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The player can log and track their fitness activities, monitoring
improvements in key areas such as endurance and strength.
Pre-Condition The player must have logged some fitness activities.
Post-Condition The player successfully tracks their fitness progress, and the sys-
tem updates their performance stats.
11
2. Project Requirements
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The player navigates
to the "Fitness" section.
2. The system displays the player’s
fitness activity history.
3. The player logs
a new fitness activity
(e.g., running, gym ses-
sion).
4. The system validates the entry
and adds it to the player’s fitness
log.
5. The player views fit-
ness progress over time.
6. The system generates a re-
port showing fitness improvements
based on logged activities.
Alternate Scenario A. The player enters incomplete activity data:
1. The system prompts the player to complete all required
fields (e.g., duration, intensity).
2. The player fills in the missing information and resubmits
the entry.
2.1.6 Use-case 6
Use Case ID UC-6
Name Do Scoring
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Umpire
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The Umpire can do scoring and keep track of runs, wickets, extras
etc.
Pre-Condition The umpire must be logged into the system.
Post-Condition The umpire successfully tracks runs, wickets, extras etc using the
scoring screen.
12
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The Umpire navi-
gates to the "Scoring"
section.
2. The system displays the scoring
interface.
3. The umpire logs
a new action (e.g.runs,
wickets, extras).
4. The system validates the entry
and updates the overall score.
5. The umpire chooses
to end scoring at the
end of an innings.
6. The system generates a summary
showing total runs/wickets and tar-
get required.
Alternate Scenario A. The Umpire enters an incorrect entry:
1. The system provides a redo/undo button.
2. The umpire re corrects their entry and the score is updated
accordingly.
2.1.7 Use-case 7
Use Case ID UC-7
Name Officiate Match
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Umpire
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The Umpire can browse available matches and request to join.
Pre-Condition The umpire must be logged into the system and have match data
available.
Post-Condition The umpire successfully joins a match.
13
2. Project Requirements
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The umpire navi-
gates to the upcoming
matches section.
2. The system displays a list of
available matches, including dates,
teams, and locations.
3. The umpire se-
lects a match and clicks
"Join".
4. The system verifies the match de-
tails and checks if there is availabil-
ity for an umpire.
5. The system confirms the um-
pire’s selection and automatically
assigns them to the match. The sys-
tem notifies the umpire of their suc-
cessful addition and adds the match
to the umpire’s schedule.
Alternate Scenario A. Umpire Tries to Join a Match that Already Has an Umpire
Assigned:
1. The system detects that the selected match already has an
assigned umpire.
2. The system notifies the umpire that the match is fully
booked and offers options to view other available matches.
B. Umpire Cancels Their Assignment
1. The umpire decides to withdraw from an upcoming match
they have joined.
2. The system prompts the umpire to confirm the cancellation.
3. The system removes the umpire from the match and notifies
the match organizer or team about the cancellation.
2.1.8 Use-case 8
Use Case ID UC-8
Name Manage Venues and Bookings
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Club Owner
14
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The Club owner wants to manage bookings, book umpires, track
payments, and monitor revenues.
Pre-Condition The club owner must be logged into the system with appropriate
permissions..
Post-Condition The club owner has successfully managed venue bookings,
booked umpires, verified payments, and tracked revenue.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The club owner
selects a venue and
checks recent bookings.
2. The system displays the booking
details (venue, teams, time, date,
umpire, and match fee).
3. The club owner de-
cides to book an umpire
for an upcoming match.
4. The system shows a list of avail-
able umpires for the selected match.
5. The club owner con-
firms the umpire book-
ing.
6. The system assigns the umpire to
the match and notifies the umpire.
7. The club owner
checks if the payments
for bookings have been
made.
8. The system shows payment
statuses (paid/pending) for recent
bookings.
9. The club owner
checks the monthly rev-
enue report.
10. The system generates and dis-
plays a summary of monthly rev-
enues from venue bookings.
15
2. Project Requirements
Alternate Scenario A. Pending Payments:
1. The club owner notices that a booking has a pending pay-
ment.
2. The system provides the option to send a payment reminder
to the team that made the booking.
3. The club owner sends the reminder, and the system notifies
the team to complete the payment.
B. No Umpires Available for a Match:
1. The system detects that no umpires are available for the se-
lected match.
2. The system notifies the club owner and offers options to ei-
ther proceed without an umpire or choose a different match
time.
2.1.9 Use-case 9
Use Case ID UC-9
Name Analyzing Collective Stats
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Team Captain
Stakeholders and In-
terest
Team Captain can view team’s collective stats and overall perfor-
mance and create different strategies.
Pre-Conditions
• The captain must be logged into the system and have match
data available.
• The team/players must have played one or more matches
previously.
16
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
Post-Conditions
• The captain successfully views team stats and overall per-
formance.
• The captain can use the stats to take data driven decisions.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The captain navi-
gates to the Team Stats
(HomePage) section.
2. The system displays all the stats
including matches played, matches
won and lost and many more.
3. The captain views
the stats and gets to
know the overall per-
formance of the team.
4. The captain navi-
gates to players section.
5. The system displays the stats of
every individual part of the team.
Alternate Scenario A. No stats available:
1. The system informs the captain that there are no stats cur-
rently available.
2. The captain is prompted to check back later.
2.1.10 Use-case 10
Use Case ID UC-10
Name Book, Check And View Grounds
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Team Captain, Groundsmen
Stakeholders and In-
terest • Team Captain needs to book a ground for upcoming
matches.
• Groundsmen are interested in renting grounds.
• Players want to ensure that they have a proper venue to play.
17
2. Project Requirements
Pre-Conditions
• The captain must be logged into the system.
• Teams must have a match planned.
• The grounds should be available.
Post-Conditions
• The captain successfully books a ground and recieves the
conformation.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The captain nav-
igates to the grounds
booking section.
2. The system displays the list of
available grounds.
3. The captain applies
filters on date, time and
price range.
4. The system updates after apply-
ing the filters.
5. The captain selects
the ground and con-
firms booking.
5. The system sends a conformation
message.
Alternate Scenario A. No grounds available:
1. The system informs the captain that there are no grounds
currently available.
2. The captain is prompted to check back later.
2.1.11 Use-case 11
Use Case ID UC-11
Name Generate kits via AI
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Team Captain
18
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
Stakeholders and In-
terest • Team Captain needs a design for the team kit.
• Kit manufacturers who will produce these kits.
• Players want to wear new kits and represent their team.
Pre-Conditions
• The captain must be logged into the system.
• The captain must have the color combination and team logo
in mind.
Post-Conditions
• The kit is successfully generated based on the captain’s in-
put.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The captain navi-
gates to the generate kit
section.
2. The system prompts the captain
to enter details i.e color combina-
tions and logo.
3. The captain inputs
design preferences.
4. The system generates kit designs
based on the preferences.
5. The captain saves the
design.
Alternate Scenario A. Captain is not satisfied with the designs:
1. The captain does not like the current designs and modifies
the prompts for more designs.
2. The system generates more designs to choose from.
2.1.12 Use-case 12
Use Case ID UC-12
Name Accessing Player stats
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
19
2. Project Requirements
Primary Actors Coach
Stakeholders and In-
terest • Coach wants to review player performance to create per-
sonalized programs.
• Players expect tailor made programs to enhance their per-
formance.
Pre-Conditions
• The coach must be logged into the app.
• Player stats and clips must be available.
Post-Conditions
• The coach successfully views the stats and clips.
• The coach creates tailor made training plans.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The coach navigates
to the Player stats sec-
tion.
2. The system displays all the stats
and clips available.
3. The coach reviews
the clips and stats and
takes notes.
4. The system allows
the coach to save the
clips for further use
Alternate Scenario A. No stats available:
1. The system informs the coach that there are no stats cur-
rently available.
2. The coach is prompted to check back later.
2.1.13 Use-case 13
Use Case ID UC-13
20
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
Name Manage Training Sessions
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Coach
Stakeholders and In-
terest • Coach want to manage training session for individual play-
ers.
• Players want clarity in their practice sessions.
Pre-Conditions
• The coach must be logged into the system.
• Players must be assigned to the coach.
Post-Conditions
• The coach successfully manages the training sessions.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The coach navigates
to assigned players sec-
tion.
2. The system displays the list up-
coming training sessions with play-
ers..
3. The coach creates a
new session and enter
the details.
4. The system saves the new session
details.
5. The coach reviews
the list of upcoming
sessions and modifies
or cancel sessions if
needed.
6. The system updates the schedule
accordingly.
Alternate Scenario A. Conflicting Sessions:
1. If a session conflicts with another one, the coach looks for
alternative times.
2.1.14 Use-case 14
21
2. Project Requirements
Use Case ID UC-14
Name Community Interaction
Scope Cricket Management System
Level User Level Goal
Primary Actors Player, Team Owner, Coach
Stakeholders and In-
terest
The player, team members, and coaches can interact with each
other through discussion forums, share updates, and schedule
matches or training sessions. This feature will allow for com-
munication and collaboration within the cricketing community
Pre-Condition The user must be logged into the system and have access to the
community section.
Post-Condition The user successfully posts or interacts with discussions, and re-
sponses or updates are reflected within the system.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Response
1. The user navigates to
the "Community" sec-
tion.
2. The system displays active fo-
rums, discussions, and groups re-
lated to cricket topics (matches,
training, events).
3. The user selects a fo-
rum or group to join or
create a new discussion.
4. The system allows the user to en-
ter a post, comment, or discussion
topic.
5. The user posts a mes-
sage or comment.
6. The system displays the post
in the selected forum and notifies
other members of the new post or
comment.
22
2.2 Functional Requirements
Alternate Scenario A. The user wants to schedule a match or training session:
1. The user selects the "Schedule Match" or "Schedule Train-
ing" option within the community.
2. The system displays a form for entering details (time, date,
location, participants).
3. The user enters the details and confirms the schedule.
4. The system posts the match/training schedule in the com-
munity, notifying other users.
B. No active forums or discussions available:
1. The system informs the user that there are no active discus-
sions.
2. The user is prompted to create a new discussion.
2.2 Functional Requirements
This section describes the functional requirements of the system expressed in the natural
language style.
2.2.1 Module 1
Following are the requirements for module 1:
1. FR1: Registration and Authentication
• User Registration
– Players, teams, clubs, coaches, umpires, and administrators can register
by providing their information (name, email, password, etc.).
– Validate unique email addresses for registration.
– Send email verification upon registration.
• User Login
– Users should be able to log in using their registered email and password.
– Password is to be encrypted and securely stored.
23
2. Project Requirements
• Forgot Password
– Users can reset their password using email verification.
• Other Login Methods(optional)
– Users can login with google using their google accounts.
2. FR2: Profile Management
• View Profile
– Users can view their profile details (e.g., personal information, data like
statistics for players).
• Edit Profile
– Users should be able to edit their personal details, such as name, contact
information, profile picture, etc. The system will apply necessary access
controls so that only authorized users can make changes in their accounts.
2.2.2 Module 2
Following are the requirements for module 2:
1. FR1: Real-Time Scoring
• Ball-by-Ball Input
– Users can input score of each ball, counting runs, wickets, and extras
(wide balls, no balls, etc.).
• Live Score Update
– The system will update and display the total score, ball-by-ball, on the
scoreboard.
• Undo/Redo Functionality
– Users can undo or redo previous scoring inputs if a mistake in scoring has
been made.
• Partnership Tracking
– Runs scored by each batting partnership can be aggregated and viewed.
• Scorer Role
– Specific users will be designated (e.g., umpires or team owners) to have
access to scoring during a match.
2. FR2: Stats Tracking
24
2.2 Functional Requirements
• Team Stats
– For each match the stats of the teams will be tracked(total runs, wickets
taken, strike rate, economy rate, etc.).
• Player Stats
– Performance for individual players will be tracked(runs, wickets, etc) and
shown in match summary (post-match).
• Stats Aggregation
– Stats will be aggregated over matches to provide overall(career) perfor-
mance (eg total runs scored by a player over a season)
• Leaderboard
– Team and players will be ranked over different metrics like highest run-
scorers, most wins etc.
• Post-Match Summary
– After the match a summary will be generated showing performances of
both the teams players.
2.2.3 Module 3
Following are the requirements for module 3:
1. FR1: Booking Management
• Ground Selection
– Users will be able to check the grounds that are available based on loca-
tions.
• Date and Time Selection
– Users will select the date and start time they want for the match.
– The system should display if the ground is available for the selected date
and time.
• Match Type Configuration
– Users will be given an option where they can decide:
* Invite-Only: Match can be joined with a link sent by the organizer.
* Open Match: Any registered user can join.
• Match Duration and Pricing
– Users can set the time-range for the match (in hours from when to when).
25
2. Project Requirements
– Ground booking costs will be displayed according to the different grounds
and prices set by groundsmen.
2. FR2: Clash-Free Scheduling
• Conflict Detection
– The system will place checks for conflicts so that a ground is not double-
booked at the same time.
• Real-Time Availability Updates
– Availability of grounds will be updated in real time as to not allow over-
lapped bookings or booking errors.
• Alternative Suggestions
– If a selected ground is unavailable, the system will suggest alternative
grounds, times, or dates that are available.
2.2.4 Module 4
Following are the requirements for module 4:
1. FR1: Automated Highlight Generation
• Key Moment Detection
– The system will automatically detect and capture key events such as wick-
ets, boundaries, sixes, milestones (e.g., 50s, 100s), and other significant
match moments.
• Event Categorization
– Automatically classify the highlights into different categories (e.g., bat-
ting highlights, bowling highlights, fielding moments).
• Highlight Compilation
– Compile these moments into a video that can be viewed post-match.
– Provide the ability to generate highlights for specific players or the entire
match.
• Customization of Highlights
– Users can choose specific types of highlights they want to focus on (e.g.,
only batting or bowling).
2. FR2: Post-Match Highlight Viewing
• Player Highlights
26
2.2 Functional Requirements
– Each player will have their individual performance highlights available
on their profile.
– Highlights will include important moments specific to the player (e.g.,
boundaries they scored, wickets they took).
• Match Highlights
– A match highlight reel showing all key moments of the match.
• Highlight Sharing
– Provide the ability for users to share highlights via social media or down-
load the videos.
2.2.5 Module 5
Following are the requirements for module 5:
1. FR1: Application on Recordings
• Video Review for LBW
– The system should allow users to upload or select recordings of specific
deliveries for LBW review.
– Enable users to focus on LBW decisions.
• Frame-by-Frame Playback
– Allow frame-by-frame playback of the video to precisely analyze the
ball’s trajectory and contact point with the batsman.
2. FR2: Ball Tracking and Hawk-Eye Technology
• Ball Tracking
– Integrate ball tracking technology to analyze the ball’s path from the
bowler’s hand to where it impacts the batsman or the ground.
– Display the predicted trajectory of the ball after impact, indicating whether
the ball would have hit the stumps.
• Hawk-Eye Visualization
– Use Hawk-Eye technology to generate a 3D simulation of the ball’s move-
ment, showing whether the ball would have hit the stumps based on the
angle, speed, and bounce.
• Impact Zone and Pitching Detection
– The system should be able to detect where the ball pitched, the point of
impact with the batsman, and whether the ball was in line with the stumps.
27
2. Project Requirements
2.2.6 Module 6
Following are the requirements for module 6:
1. FR1: Design Input Options
• Design Type Selection
– Users can select from predefined design templates (e.g., stripes, gradients,
patterns) or create custom designs.
• Color Customization
– Users can choose primary and secondary colors for their kit (shirts), in-
cluding options for custom color palettes.
• Design Preview
– As users input their preferences, provide a live preview of how the design
will look on the shirt.
2. FR2: AI-Based Design Generation
• Automated Image Generation
– The system will generate images of the kit designs based on user inputs
using AI-powered image generation techniques.
• Multiple Variations
– Provide multiple design variations based on the initial user input, giving
them a range of options to choose from.
• Downloadable Designs
– Users should be able to download the final kit design images for review
and use.
2.2.7 Module 7
Following are the requirements for module 7:
1. FR1: Upcoming Matches Overview
• Match Listings
– Umpires can view a list of upcoming matches that require officiating.
– Matches should be filtered based on date, location, and match type(20/30
overs).
28
2.2 Functional Requirements
• Detailed Match Information
– Each match listing should include details such as teams involved, venue,
date, time, and any special rules or requirements.
2. FR2: Umpire Decision to Officiate
• Match Joining
– Umpires can select a match and choose to join as the officiating umpire.
– Once an umpire selects a match, the system should confirm their booking
and mark the match as "assigned."
• Booking Confirmation
– Umpires should receive a confirmation notification (email or in-app) once
they have been assigned to officiate a match.
• Cancellation
– Umpires should be able to cancel their booking if necessary, with enough
notice for the system to find a replacement.
2.2.8 Module 8
Following are the requirements for module 8:
1. FR1: Player Match Request
• Match Listings
– Players can view a list of upcoming matches where they can potentially
join based on their schedule.
• Add+ Box in Lineups
– In the team lineup section, players can click the "Add+" button to send a
request to the team captain, expressing their availability for the match.
2. FR2: Captain’s Response
• Request Management
– Team captains will receive a notification or request in their lineup man-
agement interface showing the players who want to join the match.
• Confirm/Decline
– Captains can either confirm or decline the player’s request to join the
lineup based on their current team needs.
29
2. Project Requirements
• Notification
– Players should receive a notification (email or in-app) about whether their
request has been accepted or declined.
2.2.9 Module 9
Following are the requirements for module 9:
1. FR1: Drill Assignment
• Player-Specific Drills
– Coaches can assign personalized drills or training routines to specific
players based on their performance or areas of improvement.
• Drill Customization
– Coaches can customize drills by specifying instructions, objectives, and
expected outcomes for each player.
• Performance Monitoring
– Coaches can track the progress of players on the drills assigned to them.
2. FR2: Training Session Scheduling
• Session Scheduling
– Coaches can schedule training sessions with individual players or groups,
specifying the date, time, and type of session.
• Session Notifications
– Players will receive notifications for upcoming training sessions, includ-
ing details on the drills to be covered.
• Session Feedback
– After each session, coaches can provide feedback on the player’s perfor-
mance and suggest further improvement areas.
2.2.10 Module 10
Following are the requirements for module 10:
1. FR1: Exercise Search Functionality
• Search Bar
30
2.2 Functional Requirements
– Players can input keywords related to specific exercises they want to per-
form (e.g., "squats," "push-ups,")
• Filtered Results
– The system should display a list of relevant exercises based on the search
query, including exercise names, descriptions, and target muscle groups.
– Each exercise entry should link to instructional videos that demonstrate
proper technique and form.
– Provide categories for different types of exercises (e.g., strength training,
flexibility, cardio) for easier navigation.
2.2.11 Module 11
Following are the requirements for module 11:
1. FR1: Exercise Search Functionality
• Search Bar
– Players can input keywords related to specific drills they wish to practice
(e.g., "in-swing," "out-swing," "cover drive").
• Filtered Results
– The system will display a list of relevant drills based on the search query,
including drill names, descriptions, and the specific skills targeted.
– Each drill entry should link to instructional videos that demonstrate the
proper techniques and methods.
– Provide categories for different types of drills (e.g., bowling, batting,
keeping) for easier navigation.
2.2.12 Module 12
Following are the requirements for module 12:
1. FR1: Discussion Forums and Groups
• Forum Creation
– Players, coaches, and teams can create forums dedicated to specific top-
ics, tournaments, or teams.
• Post and Comment Functionality
31
2. Project Requirements
– Users can create posts, share updates, and respond to others’ posts through
comments, aiding discussion and interaction.
• Notification System
– Users should receive notifications for replies to their posts, comments, or
when they are mentioned in discussions.
2.3 Non-Functional Requirements
This section specifies nonfunctional requirements.
2.3.1 Reliability
• The system must have a minimum uptime of 99%, in order to make sure that the
users can access the system consistently.
• The system should incorporate regularly performed automated backups to prevent
data loss and ensure data integrity.
2.3.2 Usability
• The system should have a user-friendly interface so that users can easily make use
of and navigate through the application.
• In order to enhance overall user efficiency, the system should minimize the number
of clicks to perform tasks.
2.3.3 Performance
• The system should be capable enough to handle a minimum of 500 concurrent users
when application usage is at its peak, ensuring optimal performance and responsive-
ness.
• The response time for various features such as searching, filtering and bookings
must be less than 2-5 seconds.
2.3.4 Security
• The system should ensure data privacy by using industry standard encryption to
encrypt user data such as personal information and communication.
32
2.4 Domain Model
• The system should handle role based access by restricting access to information and
features according to user roles (player, coach, umpire, etc.).
• The system should prevent unauthorized access by making use of authentication
mechanisms (two-factor authentication).
2.4 Domain Model
Create a representation of the domain model for your project.
Figure 2.2: Domain Model of BalleBaaz
33

Chapter 3
System Overview
Give a general description of the functionality, context, and design of your project. Pro-
vide any background information if necessary.
35
3. System Overview
3.1 Architectural Design
Figure 3.1: Architectural Diagram
36
3.1 Architectural Design
3.1.1 Presentation Layer
The presentation layer is the user interface, where different actors interact with the system.
It includes mobile interfaces for various roles:
• Players: Sign in, join matches, view and track personal stats, interact in community
forums, and follow training programs.
• Team Captains: Sign in, manage team stats, book grounds, schedule matches,
generate kits, and interact with players and coaches.
• Coaches: View and analyze player stats, manage training sessions, and customize
training plans.
• Club Owners: Manage venue bookings, track payments, and monitor monthly
revenues.
• Groundsmen: Manage and update ground availability for matches.
• Community Interaction: Allow players, coaches, and team members to commu-
nicate via forums and discussions.
3.1.2 Application Layer
The application layer handles business logic, processing user requests, and managing
interactions between the presentation and data layers. The system includes several core
modules:
• User Management Module: Handles user authentication and authorization for
players, captains, coaches, club owners, and groundsmen.
• Ground Booking Module: Manages venue availability, booking confirmations,
scheduling clashes, and communication with club owners and groundsmen.
• Stats Management Module: Provides real-time and historical match stats, team
and player performance analysis, and data visualization for players, coaches, and
captains.
• Training Management Module: Allows coaches to manage and schedule training
sessions for individual players or groups based on performance data.
• Kit Generation via AI Module: Uses AI to generate custom team kits based on
input from captains (color preferences, logos).
37
3. System Overview
• Community Interaction Module: Facilitates communication through forums, group
discussions, and scheduling of matches or training.
• Payment and Revenue Tracking Module: Tracks payments for ground bookings
and manages revenue reports for club owners.
3.1.3 Data Layer
The data layer handles storage, retrieval, and management of all data required by the
application. Key databases include:
• User Database: Stores user profiles, roles, permissions, and session data.
• Grounds Database: Stores information about venues, booking details, availability,
and revenue reports.
• Stats Database: Contains match stats, player performance data, team analytics,
and historical records.
• Training Database: Stores training schedules, player progress, and session details
created by coaches.
• Kit Design Database: Stores designs generated via the AI module, along with team
logos and kit preferences.
• Community Interaction Database: Manages discussion forums, group chats, and
match/training schedules.
38
3.2 Design Models
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1 Sequence Diagrams
3.2.1.1 Sequence Diagram 1: Player Sign In
Figure 3.2: Sequence Diagram for Player Sign In
39
3. System Overview
3.2.1.2 Sequence Diagram 2: Player Join Match
Figure 3.3: Sequence Diagram for Player Join Match
40
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1.3 Sequence Diagram 3: Player Track Fitness
Figure 3.4: Sequence Diagram for Player Track Fitness
41
3. System Overview
3.2.1.4 Sequence Diagram 4: Player Modify Profile
Figure 3.5: Sequence Diagram for Player Modify Profile
42
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1.5 Sequence Diagram 5: Player Search Highlights
Figure 3.6: Sequence Diagram for Player Search Highlights
3.2.1.6 Sequence Diagram 6: Player Search Drills
Figure 3.7: Sequence Diagram for Player Search Drills
43
3. System Overview
3.2.1.7 Sequence Diagram 7: Player Search Upcoming Matches
Figure 3.8: Sequence Diagram for Player Search Upcoming Matches
44
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1.8 Sequence Diagram 8: Umpire Officiate Match
Figure 3.9: Sequence Diagram for Umpire Officiate Match
45
3. System Overview
3.2.1.9 Sequence Diagram 9: Umpire Do Scoring
Figure 3.10: Sequence Diagram for Umpire Do Scoring
46
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1.10 Sequence Diagram 10: Umpire Do Scoring (Duplicate)
Figure 3.11: Sequence Diagram for Umpire Do Scoring
47
3. System Overview
3.2.1.11 Sequence Diagram 11: Club Owner Flow
Figure 3.12: Sequence Diagram for Club Owner
48
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1.12 Sequence Diagram 12: Team Owner Analyze Stats
Figure 3.13: Sequence Diagram for Team Owner Analyze Stats
49
3. System Overview
3.2.1.13 Sequence Diagram 13: Team Owner Book Ground
Figure 3.14: Sequence Diagram for Team Owner Book Ground
50
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1.14 Sequence Diagram 14: Team Owner Generate Kit Design
Figure 3.15: Sequence Diagram for Team Owner Generate Kit Design
51
3. System Overview
3.2.1.15 Sequence Diagram 15: Coach Review Stats
Figure 3.16: Sequence Diagram for Coach Review Stats
52
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1.16 Sequence Diagram 16: Coach Manage Sessions
Figure 3.17: Sequence Diagram for Coach Manage Sessions
53
3. System Overview
3.2.1.17 Sequence Diagram 17: Community Interactions
Figure 3.18: Sequence Diagram for Community Interactions
54
3.2 Design Models
55
3. System Overview
3.2.2 Activity Diagrams
3.2.2.1 Activity Diagram 1: Player Analyze performance
Figure 3.19: Activity diagram for Player Analyze performance
56
3.2 Design Models
3.2.2.2 Activity Diagram 2: Join Match
Figure 3.20: Activity diagram for Join Match
57
3. System Overview
3.2.2.3 Activity Diagram 3: Manage profile
Figure 3.21: Activity diagram for Manage profile
58
3.2 Design Models
3.2.2.4 Activity Diagram 4: Training Sessions
Figure 3.22: Activity diagram for Training Session
59
3. System Overview
3.2.2.5 Activity Diagram 5: Scoring
Figure 3.23: Activity diagram for Scoring
60
3.2 Design Models
3.2.2.6 Activity Diagram 6: Upcoming Matches
Figure 3.24: Activity diagram for Upcoming Matches
61
3. System Overview
3.2.2.7 Activity Diagram 7: Groundsmen ground booking
Figure 3.25: Activity diagram for Groundsmen ground booking
62
3.2 Design Models
3.2.2.8 Activity Diagram 8: Analyze Stats
Figure 3.26: Activity diagram for Analyze Stats
63
3. System Overview
3.2.2.9 Activity Diagram 9: Captain ground booking
Figure 3.27: Activity diagram for Captain ground booking
64
3.2 Design Models
3.2.2.10 Activity Diagram 10: Kit Generation
Figure 3.28: Activity diagram for Kit Generation
65
3. System Overview
3.2.2.11 Activity Diagram 11: Coach review stats
Figure 3.29: Activity diagram for Coach review stats
66
3.2 Design Models
3.2.2.12 Activity Diagram 12: Coach assigned players
Figure 3.30: Activity diagram for Coach assigned players
67
3. System Overview
3.2.2.13 Activity Diagram 13: Community Section
Figure 3.31: Activity diagram for Community Section
68
3.3 Data Design
3.2.3 Data Flow Diagram
Figure 3.32: Data Flow Diagram
3.3 Data Design
The data design of the BalleBaaz system is based on transforming the information domain
into structured data entities. These entities represent the core components of the system,
and their relationships are described below.
1. Data Structure and Organization
The system uses a JSON schema to define key entities. These include:
- Player: Contains details such as player ID, name, contact information, role, preferred
hand, team affiliation, and performance data.
- Team: Stores team-related information, including team ID, name, ranking, players,
coach, and owner details.
- Coach: Represents data related to coaches, including their ID, contact information, ex-
perience, and the players they manage.
- Umpire: Tracks umpire information, including matches they have officiated.
- GroundOwner: Stores details about ground owners or managers, tracking revenue and
bookings related to the ground they manage.
69
3. System Overview
- Ground: Captures ground data such as location, capacity, and availability for booking.
- Match: Includes information about each match, such as participating teams, location,
date, and result. Each match can also have associated highlights for later review.
- Booking: Stores ground booking information, including team owner details and the
booking date.
- Highlights: Represents video highlights of specific matches, associated with the match
they belong to.
- TeamOwner: Links a team owner to their associated player, enabling management of
the team.
2. Database and Storage
The system is designed to be stored in a NoSQL database such as firebase. Each major
entity is stored in its respective collection, for example, a ‘Players‘ collection for storing
player information, and a ‘Teams‘ collection for team data. The ‘id‘ fields ensure that
relationships between entities are maintained and enable efficient querying.
3. Data Processing
Data is processed primarily through CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations
across the different user roles:
- Players: Can view their performance stats, assigned drills, and match highlights. - Team
Owners: Manage their teams, book grounds, and analyze match statistics. - Coaches:
Oversee training sessions and performance tracking for their players. - Umpires: Manage
match schedules and officiating history.
4. Data Flow
The system uses RESTful APIs to communicate between the front-end and back-end.
Each user role has access to specific endpoints to manage data related to their respective
entities, ensuring that data is organized and accessed securely based on permissions.
5. Schema
{
" Player ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" player_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" p l a y er _ n a me ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" phone_no ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" password ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" role ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" p r e f e r r e d _ h a n d ": { " type ": " string " } ,
70
3.3 Data Design
" team_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" f i t n e s s _ s t a t u s ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" a s s i g n e d _ d r i l l s ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
} ,
" t r a i n i n g _ s e s s i o n s ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
} ,
" p e r f o r m a n c e _ s t a t s ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
} ,
" highlights ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
}
} ,
" required ": [" player_id " , " p l a ye r _ n am e " , " phone_no " , "
password "]
} ,
" Team ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" team_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" team_name ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" ranking ": { " type ": " number " } ,
" players ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
} ,
" t e a m O w n e r _ i d ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" coach_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" highlights ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
}
} ,
" required ": [" team_id " , " team_name " , " t e a m O w n e r _ i d "]
} ,
" Coach ": {
" type ": " object " ,
71
3. System Overview
" properties ": {
" coach_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" name ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" phone_no ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" password ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" experience ": { " type ": " number " } ,
" team_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" a s s i g n e d _ p l a y e r s ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
}
} ,
" required ": [" coach_id " , " name " , " phone_no " , " password " , "
team_id "]
} ,
" Umpire ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" umpire_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" name ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" phone_no ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" password ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" experience ": { " type ": " number " } ,
" m a t c h e s _ o f f i c i a t e d ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
}
} ,
" required ": [" umpire_id " , " name " , " phone_no " , " password "]
} ,
" G r o u nd O w n er ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" g r o u n d s m a n _ i d ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" name ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" phone_no ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" password ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" ground_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" revenue ": { " type ": " number " } ,
" bookings ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
}
72
3.3 Data Design
} ,
" required ": [" g r o u n d s m a n _ i d " , " name " , " phone_no " , "
password " , " ground_id "]
} ,
" Ground ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" ground_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" name ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" location ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" capacity ": { " type ": " number " } ,
" a v a i l a b i l i t y ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" revenue ": { " type ": " number " }
} ,
" required ": [" ground_id " , " name " , " location " , " capacity "]
} ,
" Match ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" match_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" team1_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" team2_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" date ": { " type ": " string " , " format ": " date - time " } ,
" time ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" ground_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" result ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" highlights ": {
" type ": " array " ,
" items ": { " type ": " string " }
} ,
" umpire_id ": { " type ": " string " }
} ,
" required ": [" match_id " , " team1_id " , " team2_id " , " date " , "
ground_id "]
} ,
" Booking ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" booking_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" ground_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" t e a m O w n e r _ i d ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" date ": { " type ": " string " , " format ": " date - time " } ,
" price ": { " type ": " number " }
73
3. System Overview
} ,
" required ": [" booking_id " , " ground_id " , " t e a m O w n e r _ i d " , "
date "]
} ,
" Highlights ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" h i g h l i g h t _ i d ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" match_id ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" video_link ": { " type ": " string " , " format ": " uri " }
} ,
" required ": [" h i g h l i g h t _ i d " , " match_id " , " video_link "]
} ,
" TeamOwner ": {
" type ": " object " ,
" properties ": {
" t e a m O w n e r _ i d ": { " type ": " string " } ,
" player_id ": { " type ": " string " }
} ,
" required ": [" t e a m O w n e r _ i d " , " player_id "]
}
}
74
Bibliography
[1] A Kolyshkin and S Nazarovs. Stability of slowly diverging flows in shallow water.
Mathematical Modeling and Analysis , 2007.
75

## 2. Overall Description



## 3. Specific Requirements
