# FYP1-MidReport-F24-148-D-PromoHive - i210375 Aasir Farrukh

## 1. Introduction

1. Introduction
type of behavior is reflected in the customer’s purchase history. A key challenge is
identifying which discount type works best for each customer segment.
• Second fold: The second fold refers to determining the optimal discount percent-
age or the X and Y unknowns of the selected discount type in the first fold. This
challenge includes deciding the right discount percentage that maximizes customer
satisfaction/engagement while also maintaining profitability.
The following table provides a summary of 8 discount types that are commonly referred to
in promotional strategies, as provided by the industry collaborator in this project: UpStart
Commerce:
Discount Type Description
Buy X Get Y Free Offers customers a free product when they pur-
chase a certain number of other products. (e.g.
buy 2 get 1 free)
Fixed Price Discount Sets a fixed price for a product or a set of prod-
ucts after meeting specific purchase require-
ments. (e.g. Get 100 dollars off on next pur-
chase)
Percent Discount Offers a discount based on a percentage of the
product’s price (e.g., Buy 1 for 10 percent off,
Buy 2 for 20 percent off).
Each N-th Product Discount Discounts every N-th product in the shopping
cart, such as “20 percent off every 5th product.”
Multiple Tiered Discount Applies increasing discounts as the customer
spends more or buys more (e.g., Spend 100 dol-
lars, get 10 percent off; Spend 200 dollars, get
20 percent off).
Buy X Get Y with Fixed Discount Offers a fixed discount on a product when a dif-
ferent product is purchased (e.g., Buy 1 shirt,
get pants for 5 percent off).
Cart-Wide Discount Offers a discount based on the total value of the
shopping cart (e.g., Get 10 dollars off for every
100 dollars spent).
Product Set Discount Provides a fixed discount or percentage off
when a specific set of products is purchased to-
gether (e.g., Buy a couch, loveseat, and chair
for $999).
Table 1.1: Main Discount Types Provided by UpStart Commerce
2
1.2 Scope
1.2 Scope
Our project aims to develop a promotion engine that helps sellers create, manage, and au-
tomate promotional offers for different types of customer segments to achieve personal-
ization. The main functionalities include a promotional calendar with customer segments,
what type of promotion, and what percentage of discount to use for the promotion as its
sub-features. Other features include automated emails and monitoring/reporting through
dashboards.
Customer segmentation will analyze customer’s purchase history/pattern and product pref-
erences. Using machine learning, the system will suggest the most appropriate promotion
type and the optimal discount value for the specific customer segment. These suggestions
will be visible on the dashboards for the seller to approve/reject the promotion campaign.
The dashboards would also show reports on past promotion performance that would be
analyzed by the seller. Furthermore, the engine would allow sellers to send automated
personalized emails to their customers for promotions.
The boundary of the engine is that it would not be using any external or competitor data. It
will focus only on the company’s data. Similarly, all the recommendations would be based
on past data and not on real-time. Also, the engine would not be considering individual
customer preferences at a level beyond the predefined customer segments. Additionally,
our engine will be based upon MACH principles - Microservices, API-first, Cloud-native,
Headless and we are focusing on producing a Headless product. By headless, we mean
that there will be a minimal UI and our main operations will be performed via APIs.
Moreover, the engine does not include dynamically adjusting promotions in real-time,
and the dashboard would not have live reporting. The algorithm focus will be on machine
learning algorithms like Regression, Clustering, Decision Trees, Random Forests, etc.
1.3 Literature Review
1.3.1 Paper 1 (2018)
Author: Hong Xie, Richard T. B. Ma (National University of Singapore), John C. S. Lui
(Chinese University of Hong Kong) )
Title: Enhancing Reputation via Price Discounts in E-Commerce Systems: A Data-
Driven Approach
Objective/Purpose: To create a framework for discount rate optimizing to balance profits
3
1. Introduction
and maintain seller’s reputation.
Methodology: To determine the best discount rates, authors developed a stochastic ban-
dits framework. They used eBay data to understand buyer behaviors and preferences
towards discounts.
Key Findings/Results:
• Sellers reduced their time by 40% while losing 60% of short-term profit.
• Long-term profit increased by at least 20% with the discount strategy.
• The algorithm balanced loses with gains proving beneficial for new sellers who are
looking to increase their reputation.
Gaps/Limitations: The study focused on new sellers and may not be as useful to estab-
lished businesses.
Relevance to Our Research: This research paper is talking about discount optimization
which can be useful for our project.
1.3.2 Paper 2 (2022)
Author: Soravit Wetprasit (University of Glasgow), Qi Cao (University of Glasgow),
Chee Kiat Seow (University of Glasgow)
Title: Recommender System for Coupon Discount of E-commerce Applications
Objective/Purpose: To develop a hybrid recommender system for coupon discount rec-
ommendations in e-commerce applications.
Methodology: To match coupons to client preferences, the authors used matrix factor-
ization (Alternating Least Squares) and they also used association rule mining (Apriori
method). They used customer-item interactions and evaluated using AUC and Precision
at K metrics to assess the model.
Key Findings/Results:
• The model showed a 20% improvement in precision compared to the normal exist-
ing models.
• It achieved an AUC score of 0.912 which means that it is performing better than
feedback models.
• The used model ranked the most relevant coupons at the top, with precision of 0.7
with K set to 5.
4
1.3 Literature Review
Gaps/Limitations: They did not go deep into understanding the personal behavior of
customers.
Relevance to Our Research:As it combines customer demographics, transaction history,
and implicit feedback. This may help us in doing customer segmentations.
1.3.3 Paper 3 (2019)
Author and Year: Mei and Li (2022)
Title: Research on E-commerce Coupon User Behavior Prediction Technology Based on
Decision Tree Algorithm
Objective/Purpose: To develop a predictive model for coupon redemption behavior in
e-commerce to enhance targeted coupon distribution.
Methodology: The authors used XGBoost (eXtreme Gradient Boosting) to create a pre-
diction model which is based on decision trees. To optimize the model, they applied
feature engineering and parameter tuning on Alibaba’s O2O e-commerce data.
Key Findings/Results:
• With an accuracy of 0.9206 and an AUC of 0.8223, the XGBoost model performed
well.
• Coupon utilization within a 15-day window was anticipated well by the model.
Gaps/Limitations: They only focused on a small time span of 15 days which may not
capture long term customer behavior.
Relevance to Our Research: This research provides valuable insights into predicting
coupon usage behavior, which is important for our AI-based promotion system. We would
understand better how the prediction model can determine the customer segmentation for
optimal discounts.
1.3.4 Paper 4 (2024)
Author: Anitha Julian, Challa Maheswar, Ramyadevi R, Murali Dhar M S, Selvi S
Title: Analysis and Estimation of Discounts on Product Prices in E-Commerce Sites
Objective/Purpose: To develop a framework for analyzing and estimating optimal dis-
counts for products in e-commerce platforms.
Methodology: The authors used the exploratory data analysis (EDA) to identify the exist-
ing patterns and the relations between product sales and discount. They used the available
5
1. Introduction
historical transaction data from e-commerce platforms to develop predictive models for
discount optimization.
Key Findings/Results:
• Identified important relations between discount levels and sales volume.
• Certain product categories consistently received larger discounts which increased
sales.
• The predictive model demonstrated high accuracy in estimating sales based on dis-
count levels.
Gaps/Limitations: The study did not make use of external factors like trends.
Relevance to Our Research: This research provides a lot of explanation between dis-
count and sales. Using this information we can benefit by determining the X and Y values
in our discount type calculation.
1.3.5 Paper 5 (2022)
Author: Gaurav Jangra, Monika Jangra
Title: Role of Artificial Intelligence in Online Shopping and its Impact on Consumer
Purchasing Behaviour and Decision
Objective/Purpose: Understanding the use of Artificial Intelligence on customer pur-
chasing behavior.
Methodology:
• Descriptive research design
• 200 respondents were given a structured questionnaire across a few Haryana dis-
tricts.
• Statistical analysis: Descriptive statistics, Chi-Square, ANOV A, and regression
analysis
Key Findings/Results:
• AI explains 65% of the variance in customer purchasing decisions with R² value of
0.650
• Strong impact of AI on purchasing behavior could be seen with p-value < 0.05
6
1.4 Modules
• ANOV A analysis showed the importance of the regression model with F-value =
367.26, p-value < 0.05
Gaps/Limitations:
• Only few districts from Haryana were selected so there is an issue of limited scope
• There might be bias due to the conventional sampling method
Relevance to Our Research: This study provides useful insights into the relationship
between AI and consumer behavior in online shopping. This is important for our AI
Promotion system. This would benefit us in doing customer segmentations when we can
understand what type of factors impact customers by how much amount.
1.4 Modules
1.4.1 Module 1
This module will create promotions for different types of customer segments. A promo-
tion calendar would be generated, which would show what promotion type with what
discount value to be applied to different customer segments.
1. AI Powered Promotion Calendar
2. Customer Segmentation
3. Customizable Discounting
1.4.2 Module 2
This module will use the output from the previous module and allow the company to send
emails to the different customer segments. Moreover, it will allow the company to analyze
and optimize its promotional strategies.
1. Automated Emails
2. Dashboards
7
1. Introduction
1.4.3 Module 3
This module will handle the deployment of our promotion engine and allow seamless
integration with the e-commerce platforms. The integration will make sure that the engine
is flexible (handles different types of data) and scalable (handles different amounts of
data).
1. Deployment
2. System Integration
1.4.4 Module 4
The last module focuses on the final stage of the project. Rigorous testing will be done
to ensure all functionalities are working as expected. Based on the feedback received,
fine-tuning will be applied to improve performance.
1. Offline A/B Testing
2. Fine-Tuning
8
1.5 User Classes and Characteristics
1.5 User Classes and Characteristics
User Class Description
Marketers
and Retailers
These users will be responsible for reviewing and approving promotions.
They will also have access to a dashboard for reviewing a promotion’s ef-
fectiveness via visuals.
Development
Team
This group will handle the development, deployment, and maintenance of
the promotion engine. They will also ensure that the promotion engine is
successfully integrated with different e-commerce platforms.
Customers The customers include the end users who will receive personalized promo-
tions generated by our AI-powered promotion engine, aiming to enhance
their shopping experience.
System Ad-
ministrators
This group will be responsible for the overall management of the system.
Table 1.2: User Classes and Characteristics
9

Chapter 2
Project Requirements
2.1 Use-case/Event Response Table/Storyboarding
The use cases of our AI-based promotion engine are listed below:
1. Generate Promotional Calendar: The AI-based engine will automatically create
a promotion calendar for marketers to view. This calendar will generate promotions
for different customer segments, taking into account the segment’s purchase history
and behavior.
2. Customer Segmentation: Our AI promotion engine will analyze customer data,
purchase history, and cart data, grouping customers into segments for targeted/personalized
promotions.
3. Dynamic Discount Type Classification: The engine will dynamically allocate a
discount type to each customer segment, relying on purchase history, behavior,
preferences, and purchasing patterns.
4. Dynamic Discount Value Calculation: Continuing from the previous use case, the
engine will calculate the optimized discount value for the selected discount type,
balancing customer satisfaction and business profitability (profit margin).
5. Automated Promotion Execution: The proposed system will automate the entire
promotion process, from segmentation to rolling out the promotion, without human
intervention. This includes data analysis, customer segmentation, selecting the pro-
motion type, and optimizing the discount value.
6. Email Campaigns: Automated and personalized emails will be sent based on the
approved promotion calendar, boosting customer engagement and increasing busi-
ness profit.
11
2. Project Requirements
7. Monitor Promotion Performance: A dashboard will be provided for marketers to
monitor promotion performance, enabling data-driven decisions.
8. Offline A/B Testing: Marketers can test different scenarios on existing datasets and
compare outcomes without running live experiments.
9. Marketer Approve or Reject Promotions : Admins/marketers will have the au-
thority to approve or reject promotions generated by the engine before they are
rolled out.
Figure 2.1: Use-case Diagram.
12
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
Building upon the use cases listed in the previous section, this section contains detailed
descriptions of each use case.
2.2.1 Use Case 1
Use Case Name Generate Promotional Calendar
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level User goal
Primary Actor Marketer
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: Expects a visually appealing and easy to un-
derstand promotional calendar with optimized promotions
for different customer segments to increase engagement and
profitability.
• Business: Businesses want personalized promotions to in-
crease their revenue, sales, profit margin, and average sales
per day.
• Customers: Customers want personalized promotions to
connect with businesses on a personal level, and those pro-
motions have to take into account the history, purchase pat-
tern, and preferences.
Preconditions
• The database, or PostgreSQL in our case, must have the
whole customer data. This data includes purchase history,
cart behavior, and preferences.
• The marketer must be logged into the system.
• Segmentation, regression, and classification models must
be in place and active.
13
2. Project Requirements
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • The system generates a detailed, visually appealing, and
easy to understand promotional calendar and that calendar
should show optimized promotions for each customer seg-
ment.
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
The marketer logs
into the system.
The system authenticates the marketer.
The marketer navi-
gates to the "Gener-
ate Promotional Cal-
endar" section.
The system displays the "Generate
Promotional Calendar".
The AI-based pro-
motion engine must
be active and rolling
and it will query the
customer data, when
the marketer clicks
on "Generate but-
ton".
The AI-based promotion engine
queries the customer data.
The system pro-
cesses the data.
The queried customer data will then be
analyzed and passed through segmen-
tation, regression, and classification to
obtain results.
Using segmentation,
regression, and
classification tech-
niques, the engine
will then populate
the promotional
calendar.
The calendar is populated with promo-
tions, discount types, discount values,
and timestamps for each customer seg-
ment.
The marketer sees
and reviews the pro-
motion calendar.
The system displays the promotional
calendar in a visually appealing and
understandable format for review.
14
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: If certain data points from customer data are unavail-
able for certain segments:
– The system will use external data resources or use
predefined business rules to create generalized promo-
tions.
– The marketer will be notified that the data used for
certain segments is not fully personalized.
Special Requirements
• The calendar must be visually appealing and easy to un-
derstand, and the user(marketer) must be able to filter the
calendar based on customer segment or time period.
• The promotion engine should keep in mind the profit mar-
gins whether the promotions are hurting those margins a
lot and whether the promotions also capture the customer’s
interest.
Technology and Data
Variations • The system should be able to handle data of various sizes
and formats from numerous e-commerce platforms. It
should also account for different date formats for sales data.
15
2. Project Requirements
2.2.2 Use Case 2
Use Case Name Customer Segmentation
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level Sub-function
Primary Actor AI-powered promotion engine
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: Marketers need multiple yet precise customer
segments that understand and capture the customers’ be-
haviour accurately.
• Customers: Customers need themselves to be placed into
segments that are related to their behaviour.
• Business: Businesses want their promotions to be person-
alized and targeted so that they can connect with the cus-
tomers on personal terms and increase their profitability.
Preconditions
• The database or PostgreSQL in our case must have the
whole customer data. This data includes purchase history,
cart behaviour, and preferences.
• Segmentation model must be in place and running.
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • The promotion engine must correctly and accurately seg-
ment each customer into groups and that segmentation is
done based on demographics, purchasing pattern/history
and customer behaviour.
16
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
The AI-powered
promotion engine
receives a specific
customer’s data.
The system queries the customer data
from the database.
The engine then
queries the cus-
tomer data from
the database and
uses that info i.e.
purchasing his-
tory, cart history
and behaviour and
analyzes that data.
The system processes the data using
segmentation techniques.
using the trend
present in data, the
AI segmentation
model will classify
each person into
different groups.
The system creates customer segments
based on demographics, purchasing
patterns, and behavior.
The end
user(marketer/business)
can see the segments
of their customer
base.
The system displays the segmented
customer groups.
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: If certain data points from customer data are unavail-
able e.g marital status etc.:
– Then the system will make use of only the data points
that are available e.g. demographics and then group
the customers based on that.
– The user will be notified about the missing data points.
17
2. Project Requirements
Special Requirements
• It is crucial that the segmentation model produces an output
that is fast, scalable, and can handle all sizes and formats of
data.
• Segments can be updated in real time as soon as new data
becomes available.
Technology and Data
Variations • The data points will vary in size, format, and availability
from one e-commerce platform to another.
18
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
2.2.3 Use Case 3
Use Case Name Dynamic Discount Type Classification
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level Sub-function
Primary Actor AI-powered promotion engine
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: Marketers want help identifying the right type
of discount for the right kind of customer segment to ensure
maximum customer engagement.
• Customers: Customers want their shopping habits to be
identified and learned to give them personalized promotions
according to it.
• Business: Businesses want their profitability to be maxi-
mized but they also want to give market competitive dis-
counts without hurting their profit margins.
Preconditions
• Customer segmentation must be done keeping in mind the
customer purchase pattern, purchase history, and behavior.
• Customer segmentation must be completed and the results
must stored in a database.
• The system’s discount rules and business goals should be
defined.
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • The customer segment must be assigned the right and most
resonating discount type e.g. Buy one get one, tiered dis-
count according to the customer’s data.
19
2. Project Requirements
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
The AI-powered
promotion en-
gine accesses
the segmentation
data stored in the
database.
The system queries the customer data,
including purchasing history, cart be-
havior, preferences, and customer be-
havior.
The AI promotion
engine selects the
best suited discount
type for each seg-
ment based on pre-
vious discount type
data and/or prede-
fined business rules.
The system analyzes the customer
data.
The end
user(marketer/business)
can see the break-
down of discount
types allocated
to each customer
segment.
The system displays the assigned dis-
count types for each segment.
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: If certain data points from customer data are unavail-
able e.g marital status etc. or customer data is insufficient
then:
– Then the system will apply default business rules to
assign a discount type.
– The user will be notified about the missing data points
and/or customer data being insufficient.
20
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
Special Requirements
• It is extremely important that the discount type selected
does not hurt the business’s profit margins or start to incur
loss.
• Such a discount type has to be selected so that a balance
between customer satisfaction and profitability is reached.
Technology and Data
Variations • The assigned discount type will have variations for example
percentage discount is allocated for new visitors/customers
and a tiered discount type is selected for old customers.
21
2. Project Requirements
2.2.4 Use Case 4
Use Case Name Dynamic Discount Value Calculation
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level Sub-function
Primary Actor AI-powered promotion engine
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: Marketers want to identify and achieve the right
value of the discount to maintain an optimum balance be-
tween business profitability and customer satisfaction.
• Customers: Customers want the exact amount of discount
to complete the purchase
• Business: Businesses want their profitability to be maxi-
mized but also they need to be ensured that the profit margin
stays high and/or in the acceptable range.
Preconditions
• Customer segmentation must be done keeping in mind the
customer purchase pattern, purchase history, and behavior.
• Customer segmentation must be completed and the results
must stored in a database.
• In addition to customer segmentation, the allocated dis-
count type to each customer segment must also be stored
in the database which can be queried to access it.
• The customer data, business goals, and systems’ discount
rules should be defined.
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • After considering the optimum balance between customer
satisfaction and business profit margins, an optimal dis-
count value is assigned to the discount type template se-
lected.
22
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
The AI-powered
promotion en-
gine accesses
the segmentation
data stored in the
database. It further
accesses the dis-
count type assigned
to each customer
segment.
The system queries customer data, in-
cluding purchasing history, cart behav-
ior, preferences, and behavior.
The engine then cal-
culates the right dis-
count value for the
given discount type
by querying the cus-
tomer data from the
database and using
that info i.e. pur-
chasing history, cart
history, preferences,
and behavior, and
analyzing that data.
The system takes into account the busi-
ness’s profit goals during the calcula-
tion.
The end
user(marketer/business)
can now see the dis-
count value assigned
to each discount type
of each customer
segment and can
now approve/reject
it.
The system displays the discount val-
ues for review and approval/rejection.
23
2. Project Requirements
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: The selected discount value by the model/engine is not
satisfying the profitability goals and instead exceeding the
discount threshold:
– Then the engine will make the discount value reduced
to ensure business’s profitability.
– The user will be notified about the adjustment in dis-
count value made.
Special Requirements
• The calculated discount value must ensure business’s prof-
itability and customer satisfaction, also it should take into
consideration the demand elasticity and profit margins.
Technology and Data
Variations • The discount value will be variable by taking into account
the demand for the product.
24
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
2.2.5 Use Case 5
Use Case Name Automated Promotion Execution
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level User Goal
Primary Actor AI-powered promotion engine
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: Marketers want the entire promotion process to
be automated from segmentation to execution, to eliminate
the need for manual and mundane tasks which are done by
humans and prone to errors.
• Customers: Customers want the promotions to reach to
them in a timely and accurate manner.
• Business: Businesses want their profitability to be maxi-
mized without the need for manual labor.
Preconditions
• The promotions including the segment, discount type, and
discount value must be approved and ready to roll out.
• All of the data related to promotions i.e. segmentation, dis-
count types, and values must be configured.
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • The promotions that are approved and are assigned by seg-
mentation, discount type assignment, and discount value as-
signment are automatically rolled out with minimal to no
human intervention.
25
2. Project Requirements
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
The AI-powered
promotion engine
retrieves the promo-
tions generated.
The system identifies the promotions
assigned to each customer segment
along with their discount values.
The promotions are
rolled out and each
customer receives
a promotion that is
specifically tailored
for them.
The system rolls out the promotions.
The mar-
keter/business
can track and re-
view the promotion
execution.
The system records all the steps it
takes so that it can analyze its per-
formance afterwards and those records
can be used to enhance the engine fur-
ther in the future.
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: If some data inconsistency is found and promotions fail
to roll out:
– The error is entered into the system log.
– The user will be notified about the error.
Special Requirements
• The automation must be seamless and scalable, meaning
it should roll out promotions without any issues and can
handle large scale as well as small scale promotion data.
Technology and Data
Variations • The promotion should be delivered automatically through
various channels.
26
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
2.2.6 Use Case 6
Use Case Name Email Campaigns
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level User Goal
Primary Actor AI-powered promotion engine
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: Marketers want the promotional calendar that
has been generated to be aligned with the automated email
promotion campaigns.
• Customers: Customers want the promotions they receive
via emails to be personalized and resonate with them.
• Business: Businesses want their profitability to be maxi-
mized with the email promotions.
Preconditions
• The promotions including the approved segment, discount
type, and discount value must be approved and ready to roll
out.
• The email template should be ready and saved into the
database.
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • The promotions that are approved are sent to the right cus-
tomers at the right time via emails.
27
2. Project Requirements
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
Using the approved
promotions, our AI
engine will generate
personalized promo-
tional emails.
The system retrieves customer data
and personalizes the email content
with the relevant promotion details.
Promotions are
rolled out via email
to the right customer
segments.
The AI system personalizes the email
with customer information and promo-
tion specifics.
The mar-
keter/business
can monitor the
email campaign’s
progress.
The system records all the steps it
takes so that it can analyze its per-
formance afterwards and those records
can be used to enhance the engine fur-
ther in the future.
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: If the emails fails to be sent to the customer:
– The system will try again to send the email and log the
failure of sending the email.
– The user will be notified about the failed delivery.
Special Requirements
• The email promotion rolling out must be adapted for receiv-
ing the email on various platforms e.g. mobile, desktop,
etc. and it should also comply with the GDPR regulations
for customer data handling.
Technology and Data
Variations • Email formats and way of language must be adapted ac-
cording to different regions and preferences of the customer
segment.
28
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
2.2.7 Use Case 7
Use Case Name Monitor Promotion Performance
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level User Goal
Primary Actor Marketer
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: Marketers want to receive insights based on the
promotion’s recent performance after roll out.
• Business: Businesses want monitoring of the promotions
to make informed deci- sions which will lead to increased
profitability.
Preconditions
• The promotions must have been active once in the past or
must be running currently.
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • The system receives the insights from the promotion’s per-
formance and presents those insights in a visual manner for
the marketer to understand and comprehend.
29
2. Project Requirements
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
The user(marketer)
opens the analytics
dashboard.
The marketer views
the dashboard.
The system queries the promotion data
from the database. The system then
generates a dashboard for the user to
see, the dashboard must have metrics
such as click-through rates, conversion
rates, and sales generated.
The end-
user(marketer)
can see and review
the visual repre-
sentation of data
and make informed
decisions based on
it.
The system provides a visual repre-
sentation of performance data (e.g.,
graphs, charts) for easy comprehen-
sion.
The marketer makes
adjustments based
on the insights.
The system also logs and maintains the
changes made by the marketer for fur-
ther fine-tuning the model in the fu-
ture.
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: The promotion data is incomplete or the promotion is
not found:
– The system will show a warning message that the pro-
motion data is insufficient or not found.
Special Requirements
• The dashboard must have a user-friendly interface and must
be interactive.
• The dashboard must provide valuable insights.
• The dashboard must contain visual graphs like pie charts
and/or bar graphs for easier understanding and comprehen-
sion of the insights.
30
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
Technology and Data
Variations • The medium of delivery e.g. email promotion or in-app
promotion will determine the variation in data that has to
be displayed.
31
2. Project Requirements
2.2.8 Use Case 8
Use Case Name Offline A/B Testing
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level User Goal
Primary Actor Marketer
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: The marketer does not want to run live experi-
ments but instead run offline simulations on existing data to
gather valuable insights and compare different promotions.
• Business: Businesses do not want to risk live experiments
and want to increase profitability.
Preconditions
• The promotions that have been run in the past and their re-
sults must be available along with the historical customer
data.
• There should be a module for offline A/B testing deployed
and ready to be utilized.
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • The end-user of our system i.e. the marketer, runs sim-
ulations on data to attain insights into which promotion is
better of the two to maximize profitability and customer sat-
isfaction/engagement.
32
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
The A/B test-
ing feature is
accessed by the
end-user(marketer).
The marketer selects
two or more promo-
tions to compare.
The system simulates the results by an-
alyzing historical data without running
live experiments.
Without running any
live experiments, the
system uses histor-
ical customer data
and preferences to
predict which pro-
motion strategy will
perform better.
The system generates and displays a
dashboard showing the predicted per-
formance of each promotion.
The marketer gath-
ers insights from the
simulation results.
The insights will be gathered by the
marketer and he/she decides which
promotional strategy will perform bet-
ter on what segment.
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: The data is missing certain data points to run the simu-
lation:
– The system will show a warning message that the data
points are insufficient.
– The user can still run the simulation but will be warned
that the results might not be accurate.
Special Requirements
• The system should try and mimic real-world customer re-
sponses.
• The system should be able to handle both large and small
datasets and should provide results within 10 minutes.
33
2. Project Requirements
Technology and Data
Variations • The simulation’s accuracy will be affected by the variations
in data e.g. different demographics, physical location, etc..
34
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
2.2.9 Use Case 9
Use Case Name Marketer Approve or Reject Promotions
Scope AI Promotion Engine
Level Sub-function
Primary Actor Marketer
Stakeholders and In-
terests • Marketer: The marketer wants to have a say in what pro-
motions go out and what stays the same so that the business
policies regarding profit are not violated.
• Business:Businesses want to oversee whether the promo-
tions are aligned with the business goals or not.
Preconditions
• The admin/marketer must be logged into the system with
the right privileges.
• The promotion calendar must be generated already and dis-
played to be reviewed by the marketer.
Success Guarantee
(Postcondition) • The promotions that the marketer is suspicious about are
flagged and revised and the promotions that are good stay
the same.
35
2. Project Requirements
Main Success Sce-
nario
Actor Action System Responsibility
The system utilizes
the customer data
and purchase pat-
terns of different
customers to gen-
erate personalized
promotions for each
segment.
The marketer views
the generated pro-
motions in the form
of a promotional cal-
endar.
The system presents the promotion
calendar to the marketer.
The promotions
that have not been
viewed yet will have
been flagged as not
viewed or pending
approval.
The system flags any promotions that
have not been viewed or approved.
The marketer then
reviews the promo-
tion generated by the
promotion engine.
The system allows the marketer to in-
spect the promotion details.
The promotions that
are rejected are then
asked for correc-
tions and flagged,
and the approved
promotions are
rolled out.
Approved promotions are automati-
cally rolled out. Rejected promotions
are flagged for corrections.
36
2.2 Detailed Use Cases
Extensions (Alternate
Flows) • E1: A promotion is rejected by the marketer:
– The system asks for the correction in the promotion
by allowing the marketer to edit fields.
– The system also logs the correction which can be used
to further fine-tune the model in the future.
Special Requirements
• The approval must be easy to navigate..
• The fields of the promotion generated must be editable.
• The logs should maintain an audit trail of the changes made.
Technology and Data
Variations • Notifications of pending approvals delivered to the mar-
keters via email or in-app messages.
2.2.10 Module 1 - Promotion Creation
1. The system shall consider and analyze the data available and shall generate promo-
tions specifically for each customer segment.
2. Corresponding to the generated promotions, the system shall create a visually ap-
pealing and easy to understand promotion calendar which will clearly show the type
of promotion and the value of promotion corresponding to each customer segment.
3. The system shall select the discount type and optimize the discount value by taking
into account customer preferences, behavior, and purchasing patterns.
2.2.11 Module 2 - Automated Emails and Analytics
1. The system shall be able to send promotional emails automatically to the right cus-
tomers based on the generated approved promotional calendar.
2. The system shall provide an insightful dashboard about each rolled out promotion,
which the marketer may use to make informed decisions.
37
2. Project Requirements
2.2.12 Module 3 - System Integration and Deployment
1. The system shall provide RESTful API’s for easy integration with numerous and
varied e-commerce platforms.
2. The system shall provide a flexible engine, meaning it should be able to handle
inputs(data) of different formats.
3. The system shall be scalable, meaning it should be able to handle inputs(data) of
different sizes/volumes.
2.2.13 Module 4 - Testing and Optimization
1. The system shall have the option for the user to do offline A/B testing so that the
user can run simulations on the existing data before rolling out promotions.
2. The system shall make sure that all blocks/functions work as expected before de-
ployment.
3. The system shall allocate room for feedback-driven fine-tuning of the AI models
deployed to maximize and optimize the effectiveness of promotions.
2.3 Non-Functional Requirements
Non-functional requirements highlight the overall quality and robustness of a system. The
NFRs for our system (AI-powered promotions engine) are listed below:
2.3.1 Reliability
Reliability is a crucial NFR and it is in place to ensure that the system is robust and if a
failure occurs, how the system recovers from it.
1. NFR1: The system shall constantly maintain an uptime percentage of 99.5 percent
and ensure that the mean time between failures is minimally 5 minutes.
2. NFR2: The system shall automatically detect any failures that are about to occur or
have occurred and should recover from them with a data loss percentage being at 0
percent.
3. NFR3: The system shall maintain logs of all the critical processes that are taking
place, and if a failure occurs, the development team has to be notified within 3
minutes.
38
2.3 Non-Functional Requirements
2.3.2 Usability
For the system to be easy to navigate and intuitive, it has to follow the usability require-
ments.
1. NFR4: The system shall allow the user(marketer) to approve/disapprove any pro-
motion with just a click of a button.
2. NFR5: The system shall allow the marketer to change the content of the promotion
within 5 minutes.
3. NFR6: The system shall display the KPIs in a user-friendly and easy to understand
manner so that the marketer understands it in under 30 seconds.
4. NFR7: The system shall provide guides on how to use its feature so that a new user
can be proficient in using the system within 1 hour of training.
2.3.3 Performance
Performance requirements are there to ensure that the system has high performance and
it serves as a measure of how efficiently the system is operating.
1. NFR8: The system shall process and store the promotion generated by the engine
in the database within 5 seconds of generation.
2. NFR9: The system shall store the changes made to the promotions by the marketers
in the database within 2 seconds of the "save" button being clicked.
3. NFR10: The email promotion push system shall be able to push 50,000 emails
within 10 minutes.
4. NFR11: The customer segmentation module shall be able to process up to 10 mil-
lion records and return the segmentation results in under 8 minutes.
2.3.4 Security
For the security of customer data in the system and the prevention of unauthorized access,
security requirements have to be followed.
1. NFR12: To ensure that the data is not intercepted during transit or it is not com-
promised during at rest i.e. in the database, it shall be encrypted using standard
encryption procedure such as AES-256.
39
2. Project Requirements
2. NFR13: The system shall use multi-factor authentication to authenticate and au-
thorize marketer when accessing sensitive customer/promotion information.
3. NFR14: The system shall maintain logs for everyone using it for the past 1 year.
2.3.5 MACH Principles
To focus on the modularity, APIs, cloud scalability, and headless architecture, the system
should follow the MACH principles.
1. NFR15 - Modularity: The system shall be divided into modules so that new fea-
tures can be easily added, removed, and/or updated without compromising the
working status of the entire system.
2. NFR16 - API First: The system shall make use of well-documented RESTful APIs
so that multiple platforms can access the promotion engine’s functionalities/features
seamlessly.
3. NFR17 - Cloud Native: The system shall be deployed on the cloud, making it easy
to scale up or down and maintain 99.5 percent uptime.
4. NFR18 - Headless: The systems backend implementation shall be decoupled so
that it can be easily compatible with multiple interfaces e.g. mobile, web, etc.
2.3.6 Scalability
The scalability of our system will ensure that the system can handle input data of various
sizes and formats.
1. NFR19: The system shall be able to handle input data of Upton 1 million records/entries
without reporting degrading in its performance.
2.3.7 Maintainability
It ensures that the system is easy to fix and easy to update for the development team.
1. NFR20: The system shall be designed in such a way that new modules can be added
and/or updates to existing modules can be made without the need for a complete
restart of the system.
2. NFR21: The code for the system shall follow proper procedures for comments so
that other developers can contribute to it easily with an onboarding time of 3 days.
40
2.4 Domain Model
2.4 Domain Model
Figure 2.2: Domain Model.
41

Chapter 3
System Overview
Figure 3.1: General Overview of our system.
3.0.1 Description of System Overview
Our project titled PromoHive is an AI powered promotion engine and intends to work
of principles of dynamic promotions. Customers have unique preferences and purchasing
pattern that is hidden in the huge amounts of data, our engine works by analyzing that
customer data. It works by segmenting customers of similar looking purchase history,
product category preferences, seasonal trends, cycles and price sensitivity into different
clusters or groups. By successful segmentation, we aim to introduce personalization into
the promotions the customers receive.
The project works by passing the data into an AI powered promotion engine which con-
sists of 3 main sub-models: customer segmentation, discount type/advanced qualifier cal-
43
3. System Overview
culation (classification) and discount value/amount calculation (regression/optimization).
This is how the flow looks like: the customers are segmented, then based on each seg-
ment’s data, the discount type/qualifier is selected e.g. frequency-based, seasonal-based,
or product-based, and then finally, considering the profit margins, customer lifetime value,
and inventory levels, the right discount value is calculated that ensures that the balance
between customer satisfaction and business profitability is maintained.
All in all, PromoHive is designed in such a way that multiple e-commerce companies
can use it to boost sales and enhance customer satisfaction by using data to create smart,
effective and resonating personalized discounts and promotions.
44
3.1 Architectural Design
3.1 Architectural Design
Figure 3.2: Architecture Diagram.
3.1.1 Description of System’s Architecture Diagram:
Here is the detailed description of the architecture diagram shown above.
1. Customer Interaction: The interaction data of the customer is recorded and the AI
model is trained using the help of it. The customer interacts with the website and
the data recorded indirectly shows the individual customer’s preferences, customer
behaviour, purchase patterns, purchase history and demographics which will be
used by the AI engine for analysis.
2. Data Collection and Pre-processing: In this step, the system will make use of the
data collected in previous step and perform data analysis on it along with feature
engineering to extract hidden information in the data and to perform analysis.
3. AI Model: After recording customer interaction and performing pre-processing on
the data, the AI model will perform 3 major tasks:
45
3. System Overview
• Customer Segmentation: This part of the AI model will try and cluster cus-
tomers into groups based on their purchasing behaviour and demographics
amoungst other characteristics. For this segmentation, different techniques
such as K-means clustering and/or DBSCAN will be used.
• Promotion Type/Advance Qualifier Selection: This part of the AI engine
will determine what type of discount (BOGO/tiered discount etc.) will be
right to target which customer segment using classification techniques.
• Discount Value Calculation:This part of the AI promotion engine will deter-
mine the optimum amount of discount to be offered with the selected discount
type.
4. Personalized Promotions: After the analysis done by the promotional engine, the
customers will receive personalized promotions.
5. Promotional Calendar: After the analysis done by the promotional engine, the
promotions will be arranged in a calendar clearly showing the time-frame and spe-
cific customer segment to target the promotion on.
6. Automated Emails: For the Generated promotions, the system will push out auto-
mated emails so that the promotions have been reached to the right customers at the
right times.
7. Monitoring and Feedback: The system will track the performance of the pro-
motions and display it in a dashboard for the marketer to see and make informed
decisions based on it.
46
3.2 Design Models
3.2 Design Models
3.2.1 Use Case 1: Generate Promotional Calendar
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.3: Activity Diagram for Use Case 1.
47
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.4: SSD for Use Case 1.
48
3.2 Design Models
3.2.2 Use Case 2: Customer Segmentation
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.5: Activity Diagram for Use Case 2.
49
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.6: SSD for Use Case 2.
50
3.2 Design Models
3.2.3 Use Case 3: Dynamic Discount Type Classification
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.7: Activity Diagram for Use Case 3.
51
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.8: SSD for Use Case 3.
52
3.2 Design Models
3.2.4 Use Case 4: Dynamic Discount Value Calculation
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.9: Activity Diagram for Use Case 4.
53
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.10: SSD for Use Case 4.
54
3.2 Design Models
3.2.5 Use Case 5: Automated Promotion Execution
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.11: Activity Diagram for Use Case 5.
55
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.12: SSD for Use Case 5.
56
3.2 Design Models
3.2.6 Use Case 6: Email Campaigns
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.13: Activity Diagram for Use Case 6.
57
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.14: SSD for Use Case 6.
58
3.2 Design Models
3.2.7 Use Case 7: Monitor Promotion Performance
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.15: Activity Diagram for Use Case 7.
59
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.16: SSD for Use Case 7.
60
3.2 Design Models
3.2.8 Use Case 8: Offline A/B Testing
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.17: Activity Diagram for Use Case 8.
61
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.18: SSD for Use Case 8.
62
3.2 Design Models
3.2.9 Use Case 9: Marketer Approve or Reject Promotions
Activity Diagram:
Figure 3.19: Activity Diagram for Use Case 9.
63
3. System Overview
System Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.20: SSD for Use Case 9.
3.2.10 System-Level Sequence Diagram:
Figure 3.21: System-Level SSD.
64
3.2 Design Models
3.2.11 Data Flow Diagram:
Figure 3.22: Data Flow Diagram of our System.
65
3. System Overview
3.3 Data Design
Figure 3.23: System’s ERD.
3.3.1 Description of ERD
Below is the description of Entity Relationship Diagram of our system which will handle
data from various e-commerce platforms.
1. Catalog: This table in the data is responsible for handling the inventory aspect.
It includes values like name, category, and description, along with the product’s
status (live, hidden, archived). It also includes a unique product identifier known as
"ProductItemSKUid" which will be used to link product sold with its description.
2. Order Data: This is a very important table in the data and it is responsible for
recording the purchases made by each customer along with its details such as date
and amount.
3. Promotions Events: This table is significant in the sense that it stores the infor-
mation of all the promotions that have been made live in the past along with the
number of times each promotion has been availed. It can be linked to the customer
using PromotionID.
66
3.3 Data Design
4. Customer Events: This is a table which has crucial information of the customer.
It has information of billing address, email and whether the customer has chosen to
stay anonymous or not.
5. Views Service: This table is a result of a logger, which logs in information of the
customer related to product as it stores product details of the product viewed by the
customer and the date of the view.
6. Cart Service: This table contains data points related to the cart of a customer, it
has critical information such as ProductItemSKUid, the cart action, and the date.
67

Bibliography
[1] Gaurav Jangra and Monika Jangra. Role of artificial intelligence in online shopping
and its impact on consumer purchasing behaviour and decision. Journal of Retailing
and Consumer Services, 2022.
[2] Anitha Julian, Challa Maheswar, R Ramyadevi, Murali MS Dhar, and S Selvi. Anal-
ysis and estimation of discounts on product prices in e-commerce sites.IEEE Access,
2024.
[3] Li Mei. Research on e-commerce coupon user behavior prediction technology based
on decision tree algorithm. International Journal of Computing and Digital Systems ,
2022.
[4] Soravit Wetprasit, Qi Cao, and Chee Kiat Seow. Recommender system for coupon
discount of e-commerce applications. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data
Engineering, 2022.
[5] Hong Xie, Richard T. B. Ma, and John C. S. Lui. Enhancing reputation via price
discounts in e-commerce systems: A data-driven approach. ACM Transactions on
Intelligent Systems and Technology, 2018.
[11] [22] [33] [44] [55]
69

## 2. Overall Description



## 3. Specific Requirements
